GLOBAL WORK INSTRUCTION, DESIGN CONTROL
TABLE OF CONTENTS

1. Purpose 1
2. Scope 1
3. Responsibilities 2
4. Definitions 5
5. Cited and/or Associated Documents 5
6. Instructions 6
   6.1 Design History File (DHF) 7
   6.2 Phase 1 Planning and User Needs 7
   6.3 Phase 2 Design Inputs 11
   6.4 Phase 3 Design Outputs 11
   6.5 Phase 4 Design Verification 14
   6.6 Phase 5 Design Validation 16
   6.7 Phase 6 Design Transfer 16
   6.8 Phase 7 Post Release 19
   6.9 Design Reviews 19
   6.10 Design Changes and Product Sustaining Activities 22
7. Approvals 23
8. Revision History 24
9. Appendices 24

PURPOSE
This work instruction describes a structured approach for managing initial product development and ongoing design modifications in accordance with D0003060, Global Procedure, Design Control. The design control process ensures compliance with regulatory standards and quality procedures, maintaining safety, effectiveness, and performance throughout all development phases, including updates and modifications.
SCOPE
This work instruction applies to new product/system development designs as well as modifications or improvements to existing designs. It encompasses all products/systems for which Acme owns and is responsible for the design and/or design activities whether it is performed by Acme, or by a third party on its behalf such as a contract manufacturer or third-party design firm. When design activities are outsourced to a third party, this work instruction, or equivalent, shall apply. This work instruction does not apply to products/systems for which Acme is not responsible for the design.
The following table outlines how this document aligns with Acme's designation of product types:
Products
Regulatory Responsibility
Applicability

Distributed By (Not Acme Branded) Product: Product / System produced by an outside supplier, which utilizes the supplier’s design, specifications, and label. Branded by a manufacturer other than Acme.
Supplier
Not Applicable

“Manufactured By” Product: Product / System produced by and under Acme’s design and specifications, or Acme OEM / External OEM products/systems produced by Acme under a customer’s specifications.
Acme
Applicable

“Manufactured for / Private Label” Product: Products / Systems produced by an outside supplier, which utilizes the supplier’s design and specifications, but carries a Acme branded label and is sold by Acme. Acme is not considered the legal manufacturer.
Supplier
Not Applicable

“Manufactured For” Product: Product / System produced for Acme by a supplier, using Acme’s specifications.
Acme
Applicable

RESPONSIBILITIES
Function
Responsibilities

Project Manager
Manages overall execution of all cross-functional project activities.
Manages project budget and materials.
Drives cross-functional decision-making and leads issue resolution and escalation.
Ensures the projects are aligned with compliance requirements.
Reports project status to senior leadership.
Identifies additional project-related training requirements for team members and communicates these to functional managers.

Clinical Medical Affairs
Leads and conducts required clinical trials to generate relevant clinical data to support regulatory submissions for the product/system.
Responsible for the development of appropriate clinical plans.
Supports the usability engineering, validation, and other activities involving the user needs and intended use.
Works with the team to define requirements for user needs and intended uses.
Supports design and review activities.
Represents the clinical perspective in defining risk management-related hazards and harms.
Responsible for clinical impact assessments.

Marketing
Identifies target markets for product release.
Responsible for the commercial activities associated with the product.
Supports design and review activities.
Responsible for the definition of user needs and intended uses.

Research & Development (R&D)
Provides technical resources for design and development activities.
Ensures product/system manufacturability, serviceability, testability, safety, quality, and reliability.
Responsible for activities associated with the design inputs, design outputs, design verification and validation, design transfer, and design changes that meet target markets to support product registrations
Creates and maintains the DHF and DMR / MDF.
Reviews and assesses incoming technical issues.
Responsible for the identification of Essential Design Outputs (EDOs)
Represents the sending specification developer during design transfer activities.
Integrates Usability Engineering (UE) into the design and development process

Manufacturing / Operations / Quality Assurance

Responsible for Production Control Plan, Risk Analysis, Process Specifications, Characterization and Validation, and Design Transfer.
Responsible for maintaining the DMR in compliance with quality management system requirements.
Responsible for informing and obtaining assessment and approval from other functions about proposed changes.
Provides manufacturing leadership for the project.
Ensures a validated, capable manufacturing process is planned and established and that it is compliant with relevant regulations.
Represents the receiving manufacturing plant during design transfer activities.
Supports design development and review activities.

Service

Responsible for Service Control Plan, Risk Analysis, and Process Specifications, Characterization, and Validation.
Provide service leadership for the project.
Ensures a validated, capable service process is planned and established and that it is compliant with relevant regulations.
Supports design and review activities.

Supply Chain

Provides purchasing and supplier management leadership and support.
Leads and supports strategic sourcing, supplier selection, and supplier management activities.
Supports design and review activities.
Leads and supports contract negotiations and execution.

Design Assurance

Responsible for ensuring that design and development activities are performed in a manner consistent with the Design and Development Plan and applicable procedures.
Supports design and review activities.
Participates in the definition of Essential Design Outputs (EDOs).
Represents Quality for the sending specification developer during design transfer activities.
Responsible for Risk Management Activities.

Packaging Engineering
Provides technical resources for packaging design and development activities.
Responsible for packaging activities associated with the design inputs, design outputs, design verification and validation, design transfer, and design changes.

Biocompatibility and Toxicology
Provides technical resources for biocompatibility, toxicology, and reprocessing activities.
Responsible for biocompatibility, toxicology, and reprocessing activities associated with the design inputs, design verification, and validation.

Regulatory Affairs

Responsible for Regulatory Strategy, Technical File, and Regulatory Submission Plans and associated documentation.
Provides regulatory leadership for the project.
Ensures compliance with product registrations and obtains regulatory approval for the product in each of the expected target markets.
Supports design and review activities.

Subject Matter Expert (SME)

Responsible for the review of design subjects to the formal design review procedures.
Possesses expert knowledge of the design being reviewed.
Possesses technical competency for the content being reviewed.
Has been directly involved in the development of the design being reviewed.

Independent Reviewer

Responsible for the review of designs subject to the formal design review procedure.
Is knowledgeable of the technology of the design being reviewed.
Possesses the technical competency appropriate for the content being reviewed.
Does not have direct responsibility for the deliverable or phase being reviewed.
Engages early in the design process in order to thoroughly challenge decisions and outputs

DEFINITIONS
Refer to D0004089, Global Glossary of Terms for definitions used within the context of this document.
CITED AND/OR ASSOCIATED DOCUMENTS
Cited documents, including external standards, are explicitly cited within the content of this work instruction. Associated documents are those Global QMS documents (standard operating procedures, templates, forms and/or training material) that list this document as the parent document.
Document Number
Title
Type

D0003019
Global Work Instruction, Labeling and Instructions for Use Content
Cited

D0003020
Global Work Instruction, Process Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (PFMEA)
Cited

D0003060
Global Procedure, Design Control
Cited

D0003067
Global Procedure, Post-Market Surveillance
Cited

D0003073
Global Procedure, Sterilization
Cited

D0003074
Global Procedure, Process Validation
Cited

D0003084
Global Procedure, Clinical Evidence
Cited

D0003101
Global Procedure, Change Management
Cited

D0003103
Global Procedure, Risk Management
Cited

D0003105
Global Procedure, Product Configuration Management
Cited

D0003244
Global Work Instruction, Use Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (UFMEA)
Cited

D0003251
Global Work Instruction, Supplier Evaluation
Cited

D0003252
Global Work Instruction, Biocompatibility and Toxicology
Cited

D0003275
Global Work Instruction, Clinical Evaluation
Cited

D0003285
Global Work Instruction, Post-Market Clinical Follow-Up
Cited

D0003293
Global Work Instruction, Post-Market Surveillance (PMS) Planning and Reporting
Cited

D0003317
Global Work Instruction, Usability Engineering
Cited

D0003326
Global Work Instruction, Health Care Product Packaging Design and Development
Cited

D0003329
Global Work Instruction, Software Development
Cited and Associated

D0003330
Global Work Instruction, Design Verification
Cited and Associated

D0003331
Global Work Instruction, Design Validation
Cited and Associated

D0003335
Global Work Instruction, User Needs and Design Inputs
Cited and Associated

D0003336
Global Work Instruction, Change Impact Assessment
Cited

D0003348
Global Work Instruction, Claims Matrix
Cited and Associated

D0003349
Global Work Instruction, Risk Assessment and Control
Cited

D0003350
Global Work Instruction, Design Failure Modes and Effects Analysis (DFMEA) and Essential Design Output (EDO)
Cited and Associated

D0003384
Global Work Instruction, Regulatory Impact Assessment
Associated

D0003576
Global Work Instruction, Reusable Device Reprocessing
Cited

D0003962
Global Form, Global Document Approval Matrix
Cited

D0004089
Global Glossary of Terms
Cited

D0004141
Global Template, User Needs / Design Inputs Traceability
Cited and Associated

D0004143
Global Template, Design Transfer Plan
Cited and Associated

D0004151
Global Template, Quality Plan
Cited and Associated

D0004152
Global Template, Production Control Plan
Cited and Associated

D0004153
Global Template, Service Control Plan
Cited and Associated

D0004154
Global Template, Regulatory Plan
Cited and Associated

D0004175
Global Template, Design Review Minutes
Cited and Associated

D0017924
Global Work Instruction, Test Method Validation
Cited

D0018911
Global Template, Design Transfer Checklist
Cited and Associated

D0018917
Global Template, Design and Development Plan
Cited and Associated

D0018931
Global Template, Sustaining Change Plan
Cited and Associated

D0057155
Work Instruction, Design Transfer Effectiveness
Cited

INSTRUCTIONS
The Acme Design & Development Process (D&D) is a seven-phase program that incorporates an iterative design control process to meet the needs of the business while complying with applicable regulations and standards. In the early phases, user needs are identified and development plans are prepared. The process progresses through iterative design and refinement, with later phases dedicated to product development, testing, transfer to manufacturing, regulatory approval, and market release. The seven phases of the process are as follows:
Phase 1 – Planning & User Needs
Phase 2 – Design Inputs
Phase 3 – Design Outputs (Design Freeze)
Phase 4 – Design Verification
Phase 5 – Design Validation
Phase 6 – Design Transfer
Phase 7 – Post-Release
This design control work instruction is flexible and scalable depending on the complexity and classification of the product/system being developed. Each Phase has a defined set of deliverables.
D&D activities and deliverables can be executed concurrently or in advance of their listed sequence, if appropriate. This includes activities within one phase and between phases. The ordering and phases of deliverables are not intended to imply that all activities are required to be completed in series. All deliverables required for a phase shall be completed with no outstanding action items before a phase may be closed.
Risk management begins with the development of user needs. As the design evolves, new risks may become evident. Therefore, risk management activities shall be performed throughout the design process at key milestones identified by the Design and Development Plan and are iterative
Design History File (DHF)
Before the development of any design control documents, the Design History File (DHF) and a DHF Index should be created. The DHF shall contain or reference records necessary to demonstrate that the design was developed in accordance with the approved design and development plan and the requirements of this work instruction. All approved documents developed as part of this work instruction shall be stored or referenced in the DHF and the associated DHF Index. The Design History File (DHF) is a living document and is updated throughout the product lifecycle. The Spec Developer assures DHF deliverables are updated/completed as appropriate.
A single Design History File may be used for a single product or multiple products/systems within a Product Family or kit of products/ systems. 
The DHF shall include provisions for the Risk Management File, as specified in D0003103, Global Procedure, Risk Management, and for the Usability Engineering UE File, as specified in D0003317, Global Work Instruction, Usability Engineering.
Upon completion of design control activities, a final Phase Design Review in accordance with 6.9, Design Reviews shall be conducted prior to commercialization of the product/system.
Phase 1 Planning and User Needs
Initiate a D&D Plan to describe all major objectives, activities, design deliverables, responsibilities, and resources. The project team shall create the Design and Development Plan and shall review, update, and approve the plan as design and development evolves.
D0018917, Global Template, Design and Development Plan is the template for new product development, however, alternative templates may be used, provided that they meet the requirements outlined below:
Design and Development Plan
Address the following elements in the Design and Development Plan. As necessary, create separate plans that define the elements described below (e.g., quality, production control). These plans shall be considered part of and traceable to the Design and Development Plan.
All of the deliverables required for a given phase shall be completed prior to the Phase Design Review. The required deliverables as identified in the D&D Plan are reviewed by the Phase Design Review Team. The Phase Design Review Team determines if the deliverables meet all of the requirements for the phase, approves the closure of the phase, and determines (based on the reviewed deliverables) whether the project should continue.
Design and Development Plan Approvers
Reference D0003962, Global Form, Global Document Approval Matrix for a list of minimum required approvers.
Project Description and Objectives
Detail the high-level purpose of the project, i.e., what is to be developed, intended markets, and other considerations that communicate the size, scope, and complexity of the project. Changes being implemented post-production release shall include the description of the change in this section.
Project Roles and Responsibilities
Detail the members of the project team, their functions, and their responsibilities
Design and Development Deliverables
The D&D Plan provides a listing of Product Development deliverables by Phase. This deliverables list shall detail the projected requirements for design and development planning and be scalable to the scope of the project. Deliverables that are not applicable shall be noted with an N/A and justification. Those deliverables which are applicable for future phases shall be noted as TBD. Additional phase deliverables may be added to the D&D Plan as needed.
Develop and release a Deliverables List based on the scope of the project.
External Plans and Interfaces
Reference to any plans external to the project. This may include plans associated with other development projects or more detailed plans for certain design control elements associated with this project.
Additional Plans
The following are additional plans to consider and the relevant information to capture in each.
Quality Plan
As necessary, develop a Quality plan to address quality-related project activities including:
Any deviations to internal and/or external quality procedures, standards, and regulations that apply to the design and development activity.
Tools outside of QMS requirements to be used during the design and development process and the associated validation and maintenance (e.g., DOORS, JAMA, Infinity QS).
Quality-related roles and responsibilities not already addressed in the Design and Development Plan.
These requirements may be captured in the Design and Development Plan. If greater detail is required, D0004151, Global Template, Quality Plan may be utilized.
Risk Management Plan
Develop a Risk Management Plan in accordance with D0003103, Global Procedure, Risk Management.
Clinical Evaluation Plan
Develop a Clinical Evaluation plan in accordance with D0003275, Global Work Instruction, Clinical Evaluation.
Regulatory Plan
As necessary, develop a Regulatory Plan per D0004154, Global Template, Regulatory Plan, which outlines the activities required for regulatory registrations, including:
Appropriate regulatory strategy and tactics for the regulatory class of the proposed product and the target markets. This is to include additional in-country requirements, (e.g., testing, and certification).
Identification of the applicable regulations - to be specified in the design inputs.
Development activities related to the coordination with regulatory organizations responsible for the – product/system and the associated markets.
Specific design and development activities in support of the applicable regulatory pathways (e.g., 510(k), IDE, PMA, CE Mark, rest of world registrations).
Usability Engineering Plan
The Usability Engineering Plan outlines the strategy for identifying potential use errors in a product. It involves classifying the project type as either a legacy modification, line extension, replacement model, or new product. The plan also requires determining if formative studies needed by assessing product complexity and user diversity. These studies should be iterative, continuing until usability goals are consistently achieved.
These requirements are captured in the Design and Development Plan. Refer to D0003317, Global Work Instruction, Usability Engineering for additional information.
Software Development Plan
As necessary, develop a Software Development Plan in accordance with D0003329, Global Work Instruction, Software Development, as necessary.
User Needs
Each product/system shall establish User Needs to ensure that the design being developed meets the requirements of the intended user.
Traceability
A traceability mechanism shall be established to ensure that User Needs are documented in a way that can be linked to the corresponding Design Input Requirements and Design Validation results in future phases.
Refer to D0004141, Global Template, User Needs / Design Inputs Traceability as the recommended template. Alternative templates may be used to allow for different complexities or product configurations.
Intended Use / Use Specification
The statement defines user needs and is required for regulatory submissions. The Intended Use and User Specification shall include the following:
A general description of the function or purpose of the product/system,
Intended medical indication,
Intended patient population,
Intended part of the body or type of tissue applied to or interacted with,
Intended user profile,
Intended user environment,
Operating principle
User Needs
The statements defining user needs as determined from sources such as market research studies, and customer interviews (Voice of the Customer – VOC / Voice of Market - VOM) shall be documented per D0003335, Global Work Instruction, User Needs and Design Inputs. These sources may be documented as design history or implementation history documents.
During the development of the user needs, if marketing claims are identified, a claims matrix shall be developed in accordance with D0003348, Global Work Instruction, Claims Matrix.
Changes to existing products/systems do not require new user needs unless a customer need is identified or revised.
Phase Design Review
Upon the completion of phase deliverables, perform a Phase Design Review, in accordance with 6.9. Design Reviews, to confirm the D&D Plan and identification and documentation of the User Needs.
Phase 2 Design Inputs
Once User needs have been identified they shall be translated into technical design input requirements that are specified at an engineering level of detail per D0003335, Global Work Instruction, User Needs and Design Inputs.
Use Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (UFMEA)
Complete the initial UFMEA in accordance with D0003244, Usability Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (UFMEA) Global Work Instruction.
Preliminary Hazard Analysis
Complete a preliminary hazard analysis in accordance with D0003349, Global Work Instruction, Risk Assessment and Control by completing an initial revision of the Risk Assessment and Control Table. This activity shall identify risk-related mitigations that need to be included in the design input requirements.
Software Requirements
As appropriate, software requirements shall be developed from the system requirements in accordance with D0003329, Global Work Instruction, Software Development.
Traceability
Update the traceability mechanism established in Phase 1 to capture the Design Input Requirements which have been translated from User Needs and which will be linked to the corresponding Design Verification results, and associated risks/controls in future phases.
Phase Review
Perform a phase review, as defined in 6.9, Design Reviews, to confirm the adequacy of the design inputs.
Phase 3 Design Outputs
The design outputs are the result of the design efforts to satisfy design inputs, form the basis of the Device Master Record or Medical Device File (DMR/MDF), and are recorded as part of the DHF. Design outputs will consist of the final salable product, including all design specifications.
Device Design Outputs
Development of the Design Outputs involves the development of the design specifications as well as the intermediate design outputs that characterize the design. The following are activities performed to develop final design outputs:
Preliminary design specifications,
Models and prototypes,
UFMEA developed per section 6.4.8.1,
DFMEA developed per section 6.4.8.2,
PFMEA developed per section 6.4.8.3
Human Factors assessment results (Formative and other assessment studies)
Biocompatibility, bioburden test assessments, and/or sterility assurance,
Reliability and product lifetime test results (shelf / useful life)
Final Design Outputs may include the following:
Assembly drawings
Component and material specifications
Production and process specifications
Software machine code (e.g., diskette or master EPROM)
Work instructions
Quality assurance specifications and procedures
Installation and servicing procedures
Packaging and labeling specifications, including methods and processes used
Installation, inspection, testing, handling, operating, disposal, and servicing of the product as applicable
Software Development Outputs
As part of Design and Development, software will be developed in accordance with the Software Development plan and in accordance with D0003329, Global Work Instruction, Software Development.
Packaging Design
Develop packaging design in accordance with D0003326, Global Work Instruction, Health Care Product Packaging Design and Development.
Labeling
As part of the design outputs, develop all levels of initial product labeling. The design shall include but not be limited to the following:
Specifications that establish and maintain requirements that shall be met by materials, components, and service suppliers. This includes the inspection and quality process associated with the labeling.
Labeling for both the product/system (direct part marking) and the packaging to meet business and regulatory requirements.
Instructions for Use and required training materials (as required).
Note: At this phase, labeling content may not be finalized but shall be completed prior to the initiation of design validation activities.
Refer to D0003019, Global Work Instruction, Labeling and Instructions for Use Content.
Initial Device Master Record / Medical Device File (DMR/MDF)
Design Outputs and all process specifications form the basis of the DMR/MDF and are recorded as part of the DHF.
Compile an initial DMR/MDF including the following information which has been developed throughout this phase:
Product/system Design Outputs
Software Development Outputs
Packaging Design
Labeling
Manufacturing Process including Process Specifications, Inspection and Quality Processes, Manufacturing Facilities specifications
Service Process including Process Specifications, Inspection and Quality Processes, Manufacturing Facilities specifications
Sterilization Process including Process Specifications, Inspection and Quality Processes, Manufacturing Facilities specifications
Formative Evaluations
To generate feedback on initial product/system designs and inform decisions on changes that should be implemented before the design freeze, perform Formative Evaluations in accordance with the requirements of D0003317, Global Work Instruction, Usability Engineering. Formative evaluations may also be performed earlier in the design and development process in order to confirm user needs and/or design input requirements
Catalog Number / Internal Part Number (IPN) / Global Trade Item Number (GTIN)
Create Catalog Numbers, Internal Part Numbers, and Global Trade Item Numbers per D0003105, Global Procedure, Product Configuration Management.
Risk Management
Use Failure Modes and Effects Analysis
Update the UFMEA to capture the use mitigations intended to reduce risk in accordance with D0003244, Global Work Instruction, Usability Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (UFMEA).
Design Failure Modes and Effects Analysis / Essential Design Outputs
Develop a DFMEA in accordance with D0003350, Global Work Instruction, Design Failure Modes and Effects Analysis (DFMEA) / Essential Design Outputs. Once the final design outputs have been created, identify Essential Design Outputs (EDOs) to ensure that the design outputs that are essential for the proper functioning and safety of the product/system are identified.
Process Failure Modes and Effects Analysis
Develop a PFMEA in accordance with D0003020, Global Work Instruction, Process Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (PFMEA).
Risk Assessment and Control Table
Update the Risk Assessment and Control Table (RACT) to capture the design mitigations intended to reduce risk in accordance with D0003349, Global Work Instruction, Risk Assessment and Control.
Design Verification Plan
Generate a Design Verification Plan in accordance with D0003330, Global Work Instruction, Design Verification. See section 6.5 for additional items to consider in design verification planning.
Design Validation Plan
Generate a Design Validation Plan in accordance with D0003331, Global Work Instruction, Design Validation. See section 6.6 for additional items to consider in design validation planning.
Clinical Trial Plans
The clinical trial, plans, protocols, and reports shall be developed, as required, in accordance with D0003084, Global Procedure, Clinical Evidence.
Supplier Qualifications
Supplier qualifications shall be initiated as required per D0003251, Work Instruction, Supplier Evaluation. This applies to:
New part numbers with new suppliers (Full initial Evaluation)
New part numbers with current suppliers (Supplier re-evaluation)
Current part numbers and current supplier changing from non-CE marked to CE Marked (Supplier re-evaluation)
Notify Supplier Quality at Global-Supplier-Quality@Acme.com
Production Control Plan
As necessary, develop a Production Control Plan to address the approach and procedures associated with the following:
Documentation of the manufacturing procedures and methods.
Infrastructure qualification.
Acceptance activities for raw materials
In-process acceptance activities
Acceptance activities for finished goods
Requirements and activities at suppliers, TFX manufacturing facilities, and Acme Distribution Centers
Selected DHR requirements
Monitoring and Measurement of production.
Labeling and Packaging.
Support for design transfer activities.
Please refer to D0004152, Global Template, Production Control Plan, for details of the Production Control Plan.
Phase Review
Perform a phase review, in accordance with 6.9, Design Reviews in order to document design freeze, close Phase 3, and ensure that verification testing does not start prior to design freeze.
Phase 4 Design Verification
Design verification is performed to confirm that the design inputs are being met by the design outputs and shall be planned, executed, and reported on in accordance with D0003330, Global Work Instruction, Design Verification for the elements of design verification planning.
As part of the Design and Development Process:
Packaging Verification Plan and Protocols shall be developed in accordance with D0003326, Global Work Instruction, Health Care Product Packaging Design and Development.
Software verification results shall be documented and reviewed in accordance with D0003329, Global Work Instruction, Software Development.
Biocompatibility and Toxicology requirements shall be verified in accordance with D0003252, Global Work Instruction Biocompatibility and Toxicology.
Reprocessing Toxicology requirements shall be verified in accordance with D0003576, Global Work Instruction, Reusable Device Reprocessing.
Test Method Validation
Prior to the execution of design verification testing, ensure that all test methods are validated to confirm suitability.
Refer to D0017924, Global Work Instruction, Test Method Validation for the requirements associated with test method validation.
Traceability
Update the traceability mechanism to ensure that all design input requirements can be traced to appropriate design verification testing.
Design Transfer Plan
Create a Design Transfer Plan (see D0004143, Global Template, Design Transfer Plan) to define the project activities necessary to ensure that the product/system design is correctly transferred into production, including supplier and service activities.
The Design Transfer Plan shall detail the following:
The approach for translating product/system design (Design Outputs) into manufacturing specifications,
The review and approval of the final DMR/MDF,
The scope of necessary validations (e.g., process, equipment, tooling, test methods, utilities, and facilities),
Process capability and controls assessment for the entire supply chain,
The appropriate risk management activities,
Inspection and testing criteria for raw materials, work-in-process, and finished products/systems,
The associated training (e.g., operator, engineering, quality control),
Production, supplier, and service readiness assessment process,
If the product/systems requires installation, planning for validation of installation,
Definition of the process for confirmation that Design Transfer has been completed.
Service Control Plan
In cases where routine servicing and/or repairs are offered by Acme or a Acme partner, a plan may be needed to capture the approach and requirements. As necessary, develop a Service Control Plan which addresses the following:
Service approach and needs.
Service quality.
Service process development and verification, including protocols for verification
Identification of what product can/cannot be serviced
Acceptance activities for serviced product
Selected DHR requirements
Support for design transfer activities
Please refer to D0004153, Global Template, Service Control Plan, for details of the Service Control Plan.
Phase Review
Perform a Phase Design Review, in accordance with 6.9, Design Reviews to confirm the adequacy of the design verification.
Phase 5 Design Validation
Validation looks at the product/system in its entirety and confirms that the finished product/system meets the intended uses and user needs. Validation testing shall encompass the intended use of the product/system as well as reasonably foreseeable misuse, as appropriate. It shall be planned, executed, and reported on in accordance with D0003331, Global Work Instruction, Design Validation for the elements of design validation planning.
As part of the design and development process, the following shall be completed as appropriate:
Human Factors Summative Evaluation shall be conducted in accordance with D0003317, Global Work Instruction, Usability Engineering.
Packaging Validation shall be documented and reviewed in accordance with D0003326, Global Work Instruction, Health Care Product Packaging Design and Development.
This shall include labeling validation of any instructions for use.
Design validation shall include software validation and risk analysis of software, where appropriate
Traceability
Update the traceability mechanism to ensure that all user needs can be traced to appropriate validation testing.
Risk Management
Identify potential risks from the Design Validation. Assess risks using tools such as FMEA to control and mitigate them based on likelihood and impact; develop and implement appropriate risk control measures as necessary; and verify and validate the effectiveness of these measures. Update the Risk Assessment and Control Table to capture post-mitigation scores in accordance with D0003349, Global Work Instruction, Risk Assessment and Control.
Clinical Evaluation Report
Generate a Clinical Evaluation Report in accordance with D0003275, Global Work Instruction, Clinical Evaluation.
Phase Review
Perform a phase review, in accordance with 6.9, Design Reviews to confirm the adequacy of the design validation.
Phase 6 Design Transfer
A Product Configuration Management Implementation Plan per D0003105, Global Procedure, Product Configuration Management shall also be included in the DHF as part of the design transfer.
Manufacturing Process Design
Manufacturing process design shall be based on the preliminary design, Bill of Material (BOM), manufacturing performance, and quality objectives.
Manufacturing Process Specifications shall include but not be limited to the following:
Specifications that define Device History Record (DHR) content to ensure that production records for the product/system show the processes, tests, and rework used to manufacture the product/system,
Manufacturing Process Specifications (e.g., standard operating procedures),
Specifications that establish and maintain requirements that shall be met by materials, components, and manufacturing suppliers. This includes the inspection and quality process associated with the manufacturing process.
Process Failure Modes and Effects Analysis (PFMEA),
Process equipment, tooling, fixtures, test methods, and procedures, including acceptance criteria,
Specifications that identify the controls associated with essential design outputs as specified in section 6.4.9.1 Design Failure Modes and Effects Analysis,
Specifications for the manufacturing facilities that include the specifications for facility needs (e.g., environmental, power, water, HVAC),
Product, Assembly, and/or Sub-Assembly Test Specifications that specify test scenarios with acceptable limits and/or ranges.
Manufacturing process validation shall be conducted using the plans, protocols, results, and reports developed and executed in accordance with D0003074, Global Procedure, Process Validation.
Service Process Design
Service process design is applicable for products/systems that are serviceable or which repairs are offered and shall be based on the preliminary design, Bill of Material (BOM), manufacturing performance, and quality objectives.
Service Process Specifications shall include but not be limited to the following:
Specifications that define Device History Record (DHR) content to ensure that service records for the product/system show the processes, tests, and rework used to service the product/system,
Service Process Specifications (e.g., standard operating procedures),
Specifications that establish and maintain requirements that shall be met by materials, components, and service suppliers. This includes the inspection and quality process associated with the service process,
Process Failure Modes and Effects Analysis (PFMEA),
Process equipment, tooling, fixtures, test methods, and procedures, including acceptance criteria,
Specifications that identify the controls associated with essential design outputs as specified in section 6.4.9.1 Design Failure Modes and Effects Analysis,
Specifications for the service facilities that include the specifications for facility needs (e.g., environmental, power, water, HVAC),
Specifications related to the onsite servicing of the product/system,
Product, Assembly, and/or Sub-Assembly Test Specifications that specify test scenarios with acceptable limits and/or ranges.
Service process validation shall be conducted using the plans and protocols, results, and reports developed in accordance with D0003074, Global Procedure, Process Validation.
Test Method Validation
As part of Design Transfer, ensure that all test methods used in Production and Service are validated to confirm suitability.
Refer to D0017924, Global Work Instruction, Test Method Validation for the requirements associated with test method validation.
Sterilization Process Design
Sterilization process design shall be based on the preliminary design, Bill of Material (BOM), sterilization requirements, and quality objectives.
Sterilization Process Specifications shall include but not be limited to the following:
Specifications that define Device History Record (DHR) content to ensure that sterilization records for the product/system show the processes, tests, and rework used to sterilize the system,
Sterilization Process Specifications (e.g., standard operating procedures)
Specifications that establish and maintain requirements that shall be met by materials, components, and service suppliers. This includes the inspection and quality process associated with the sterilization process,
Process Failure Modes and Effects Analysis (PFMEA),
Process equipment, tooling, fixtures, test methods, and procedures, including acceptance criteria,
Specifications that identify the controls associated with essential design outputs as specified in section 6.4.9.1 Design Failure Modes and Effects Analysis,
Specifications for the sterilization facilities that include the specifications for facility needs (e.g., environmental, power, water, HVAC).
Sterilization process validation shall be conducted using the plan and protocols developed in accordance with D0003073, Global Procedure, Sterilization. The results and reports will be developed in accordance with D0003073, Global Procedure, Sterilization.
DMR/MDF
Complete the DMR in accordance with the requirements stated in section 6.4.5.
Design Transfer Checklist
Refer to D0018911, Global Template, Design Transfer Checklist. Based on the complexity of the project, a single checklist may be created to cover all design transfer activities or multiple checklists may be created to cover significant portions of the project, such as:
New finished products/systems or sub-components being created and/or changed as part of the project
New finished goods being created and/or changed as part of the project
For changes to existing products/systems released to production, design transfer deliverables may be documented as part of the D&D Plan or Change Plan governing document for the change.
Enter a description of the scope at the top of the Design Transfer Checklist. If available, the part numbers should be listed.
The Design Transfer Checklist should be initiated no later than Phase 4 of Design Control and can be revised as necessary during any phase of that process.
Risk Management Report
Develop a Risk Management Report in accordance with D0003103, Global Procedure, Risk Management. The Risk Management Report shall summarize the results of risk management activities performed throughout the design and development process and conclude whether the residual risks are outweighed by the benefits with a Benefit Risk Analysis.
Phase Review
Perform a Phase Design Review, in accordance with 6.9, Design Reviews shall confirm the adequacy of the design transfer.
Phase 7 Post-Release
Each D&D Plan shall establish and maintain plans for the post-release of the product. This will include:
Post-Release Surveillance Plan – the establishment of processes to monitor the performance and safety of the released product.
Software Maintenance Plan – the software maintenance procedures, developed in accordance with D0003329, Global Work Instruction, Software Development.
Post-Release Surveillance Plan
A Post Release Surveillance Plan shall be developed to outline the process to review and assess the post-release performance of the product/system. This plan will be developed in accordance with D0003067, Global Procedure, Post-Market Surveillance and D0003293, Global Work Instruction, Post-Market Surveillance (PMS) Planning and Reporting.
Post-Market Clinical Follow-up
If Post-Market Clinical Follow-up is required, it shall be performed in accordance with D0003285, Global Work Instruction, Post-Market Clinical Follow-Up.
Design Transfer Effectiveness Assessment
Following the limited market release of the product and prior to the full market release, a Design Transfer Readiness Assessment shall be completed per D0057155, Work Instruction, Design Transfer Effectiveness.
Design Reviews
Design reviews are critical evaluations conducted at various stages of the product/system development process to ensure the design meets predefined requirements and to identify any potential issues early in the development cycle. At the completion of the review, the approvers shall agree as to the status of the deliverables and whether or not to accept the material being reviewed. There are two types of design reviews: Technical Design Reviews and Phase Design Reviews.
All reviews shall be conducted in accordance with this work instruction and outputs shall be recorded using D0004175, Global Template, Design Review Minutes. Material for these reviews shall be distributed prior to the review. A minimum of one week should be considered. These reviews will require the designation of a moderator and a scribe.
Technical Design Reviews
Technical Design Reviews are intended to provide a systematic assessment of design results, including the product/system design and the associated designs for production and support processes, and to provide feedback to designers on existing or emerging problems. These reviews:
Evaluate the robustness of the design and its compliance with requirements.
Identify potential design and process issues.
Ensure that all design inputs are complete, unambiguous, verifiable, and non-conflicting.
Ensure that required project deliverables meet QMS requirements,
Involve a cross-functional team including independent reviewer(s) who have not been responsible for the design activities under review.
Documentation of Technical Design Reviews include detailed minutes that record discussions, decisions, and assigned action items. These minutes shall be approved and any open action items closed before concluding a Phase Design Review.
Required approvers for the document(s) under review shall attend, along with a quality function (if not already represented as an approver), and an independent reviewer. Technical Design Reviews should be conducted by person(s) having technical competence and experience at least comparable to the developers. In addition, specialist SMEs in relevant areas should be included (i.e., electronics, mechanics, software, materials science).
Technical Design Reviews shall be documented for the current revision of the deliverable being reviewed at the conclusion of a phase. Revisions to those documents in later phases do not require additional Technical Design Review, but Technical Design Reviews may be executed on revisions at the discretion of the team and management.
The extent and frequency of Technical Design Reviews depend on the complexity of the product/system being evaluated. Technical Design Reviews may be executed on any document, but are required on each of the following documents by the end of the defined phases:
Table 1: NPD & D&D Plan Project Technical Design Review Requirements by phase. Reviews may be combined within a phase based on attendees, timeline, readiness, and other factors to improve efficiency and effectiveness.
Phase 1- Planning & User Needs
Phase 2- Design Inputs
Phase 3- Design Outputs
Phase 4- Design Verification
Phase 5-Design Validation
Phase 6- Design Transfer

Traceability Matrix (User Needs)
Traceability Matrix (Design Input requirements)

RACT (Preliminary Hazard Analysis)

UFMEA

DFMEA

PFMEA

Pilot DMR (Product, Packaging)

RACT(Risk Controls)

Design Verification Plan

Design Validation Plan

Process Validation Plan
Design Verification Results

Final DFMEA

Labeling

Design / Human Factors Validation Results

RACT (Post Mitigation)

Risk Management Report

Final DMR

Design Transfer Checklist

Process Validation Results

Final PFMEA

Additional topics for Technical Design Reviews may include but are not limited to: complaints on similar products/systems, engineering trials or prototypes, design for manufacturability, 3-D Models, mold flow analysis, Finite Element Analysis (FEA), engineering/confidence testing, drawings, tolerance stack review, and design problems.
Phase Design Reviews
Phase Design Reviews assess the overall progress of the project and confirm that specific phase deliverables are complete. These reviews are held at the conclusions of each development phase, excluding post-release, and include representatives from all required disciplines as specified in the project's design and development plan.
Required Attendees are defined as required for Design Review Approval per D0003962, Global Form, Global Document Approval Matrix. Representatives from each required function or their delegate are required to be in attendance. If a representative of a required function is unable to attend, the meeting shall be rescheduled.
Minutes shall be collected during the meeting which includes summarized discussions, decisions, and action items. Following the review, the author/owner or moderator (depending on the type of review) shall be responsible for ensuring documentation is retained within the DHF.
If open action items are noted, another Phase Design Review shall be conducted upon completion of those action items to close the Phase Design Review. The Phase Design Review Minutes shall be revised to note the completed actions and close the phase.
The number of Phase Design Reviews shall be in proportion to the scale and complexity of the design and development activity. Phase Design Reviews should be held as specified in the D&D Plan. If a Phase Design Review covers multiple phases or combines with a Technical Design Review, this should be clearly documented in the review minutes.
Phases shall be closed in sequential order. A phase cannot be closed until all action items identified in the phase (whether during technical or Phase Design Reviews) are closed. Phase Design Reviews may include the review of more than one development phase as multiple phases can be in process simultaneously in alignment with the project’s D&D Plan.
Combined Reviews
Combined technical and Phase Design Reviews, or Technical Design Reviews of multiple documents are permissible and may be necessary at key points, such as during the design transfer phase. These reviews should:
Address both technical and phase-specific considerations.
Ensure that all previous phase and Technical Design Review action items are resolved.
Review documentation should clearly state whether the review is combined, list all topics covered, and specify the phases involved.
Planning and Inputs Phase Design Review
The planning and inputs Phase Design Review is the first review of a project. To document that the design inputs are comprehensive and appropriate, the review minutes shall include a statement for the listed finished product/system(s) or finished good(s) that:
All international standards pertinent to the product/system for the geographies in which it is intended to be marketed, as denoted in the D&D plan, have been incorporated into the design requirements.
The design requirements are based on current versions of all pertinent international standards or include justification for using older versions.
Note: It is common for different countries to adopt new revisions of standards at different rates. These discrepancies may be identified and explained in the design review minutes.
Design Transfer Phase Review
The design transfer Phase Design Review is the final review performed before the finished product/system is released for commercialization. This Phase Design Review is intended to confirm that deliverables from Phases 1 through 6 in the D&D Plan and all action items from previous technical and/or Phase Design Reviews have been completed. To document this confirmation, the review minutes shall include a statement for the listed finished product/systems or finished good(s) that:
All deliverables from the D&D Plan are complete
All action items are complete
Once the design transfer Phase Design Review minutes are approved, the D&D Plan can be revised to change its project status.
Design Changes and Product Sustaining Activities
Design changes during the design and development process are the responsibility of the project team and the functional area(s) responsible for any affected deliverable. Any change made after the initiation of verification/validation activities shall be evaluated to determine the need for additional verification or validation testing, additional risk management or analysis, the need to modify other existing documentation in the DHF, and changes to the Technical File/Technical Documentation and/or usability file for CE marked products. 
All post-production changes to the product/system shall be assessed to ensure that the form, fit, or function has not changed in relation to the safety of the product/system, the efficacy of the product/system, and the indications for use of the product/system according to D0003101, Global Procedure, Change Management. For post-commercialized product/system changes where the design inputs are not changing, a Change Plan per D0003101, Global Procedure, Change Management, can be used as the planning document for the project in lieu of a D&D plan.
The change plan approach does not alleviate any of the requirements of Design Control; the required deliverables and documented evidence do not differ from those identified when using a D&D plan. If a substantial number of design control deliverables need to be created or modified to implement the change, it is required that a D&D planning document be utilized. Post-production product changes governed by a Change Plan may combine design reviews and execute the review(s) via the cross-functional change control approval process in accordance with D0003101, Global Procedure, Change Management. Change Plans shall utilize embedded design control deliverables within the change control form or utilize a template such as D0018931, Global Template, Sustaining Change Plan to document the plan. Changes to the post-production product/system shall be assessed in accordance with D0003336, Global Work Instruction, Change Impact Assessment. Refer to D0003105, Global Procedure, Product Configuration Management to determine the impacts on Catalog Numbers, Internal Part Numbers, and Global Trade Item Numbers for all changes.
Design Change to an Existing User Interfaces and User Interface of Unknown Provenance (UOUP)
As part of a design impact change assessment, usability updates shall be required if any interface changes are related to a critical task. If usability activities are identified, the Change plan will document the plan to evaluate the changes around the new user interface. Refer to the product's existing usability documentation to assess the need for additional testing.
If the design of the user interface was created prior to February 2015 the product/system shall be evaluated for changes in the user interface to the original product/system. To evaluate the legacy interface, refer to D0003317, Global Work Instruction, Usability Engineering. If a legacy product has a UOUP and no changes to the user interface or its parts, then the UOUP remains current for the usability of the product. If modifications are made to the user interface or its parts, the unchanged part of the user interface remains current to the existing UOUP, and the changed design shall be evaluated and the usability file shall be supplemented with deliverables according to the design control process noted in this procedure.
APPROVALS
Functional Role
Printed Name
Signature
Date

Document Owner – Sr. Manager, Design Assurance
Carl Santos
See Agile
See Agile

Vice President, Research & Development
Megan Knestrick
See Agile
See Agile

VP Global Quality Engineering
Ron Aplin
See Agile
See Agile

REVISION HISTORY
Revision Level

Change Order Number
Summary of Changes

03
CO004520
Changed from Procedure to Work Instruction. Moved procedure level details to D0003060. Restructured document to provide instructions and deliverables to be completed by phase of the project. Removed details which are repeated in other standard operating procedures and updated references. Aligned document with all other updates to standard operating procedures and templates in CO004520. Removed Definitions to be moved to Glossary of Terms.

04
CO010515
Move to current template. Update document title and references per 1/eQMS project. Added Regulatory Responsibility to Scope section. Added functional responsibilities and updated cited documents. Rearrangement of deliverables into the appropriate phases design control. Rewrite of Design Review section to clarify the differences between Technical Design Reviews and Phase Design Reviews and the addition of required Technical Design Reviews throughout the development.

05
CO012888
Replaced device with product/system throughout the document,
Added identifying target markets to marketing responsibilities
Removed citation of usability templates which have been integrated into design control templates
Added reference to the regulatory impact assessment
Emphasized throughout the document that all deliverables for a phase shall be completed prior to phase design review
Updated instructions for documenting a Usability Engineering Plan in Section 6.2.1.6.5, Incorporated Use Specification with the Intended Use in section 6.2.2.2, Moved the UFMEA to Phase 2 in section 6.3.1, Added specific considerations for Phase 2 Design Review in section 6.3.5, Clarified that Formative Evaluations may be performed earlier than Phase 3 in 6.4.6, Updated references to D0003317 for work instruction level details on performing summative evaluations, Elaborated on the purpose of the Risk Management Report in section 6.7.7, Added reference to Design Transfer Effectiveness Assessment in section 6.8.3, Incorporated content from D0003334 into section 6.9 so that it can be obsoleted
Added section 6.10.1 for assessing design changes to user interfaces, Added section 6.10.2 for completing regulatory impact assessments

APPENDICES
N/A
