GLOBAL WORK INSTRUCTION, SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
TABLE OF CONTENTS

1. Purpose 1
2. Scope 1
3. Responsibilities 1
4. Definitions 2
5. Cited and/or Associated Documents 4
6. Instructions 5
   6.1 Legacy Software (BS EN 62304 section 4.4) 5
   6.2 Software Development Planning (BS EN 62304 section 5.1) 7
   6.3 Software Requirements (BS EN 62304 section 5.2) 7
   6.4 Software Architecture (BS EN 62304 section 5.3) 8
   6.5 Software Detailed Design (BS EN 62304 section 5.4) 8
   6.6 Software Unit Implementation (BS EN 62304 section 5.5) 8
   6.7 Software Integration and Integration Testing (BS EN 62304 section 5.6) 9
   6.8 Software System Testing (BS EN 62304 section 5.7) 9
   6.9 Software Release (BS EN 62304 section 5.8) 10
   6.10 Software Maintenance (BS EN 62304 section 6.1) 10
   6.11 Software-Specific Elements of the Risk Management Process (BS EN 62304 section 7) 10
   6.12 Software Configuration Management (BS EN 62304 section 8) 11
   6.13 Software Problem Resolution Process (BS EN 62304 section 9) 11
7. Approvals 12
8. Revision History 12
9. Appendices 12

PURPOSE
This work instruction describes the requirements and activities for development of software in support of Software in a Medical Device (SiMD) and Software as a Medical Device (SaMD) within Acme.
SCOPE
This work instruction is applicable to new medical device designs as well as modifications or improvements to existing device designs. This work instruction applies to all medical devices for which Acme is responsible for the design whether it is carried out by Acme, or on Acme’s behalf by a third party.
For non-medical device software, this work instruction may be used to guide the activities performed.
This work instruction does not apply to non-device Software. For non-device software, refer to D0003078, Global Procedure, Non-Device Software Validation.
RESPONSIBILITIES
Function
Responsibilities

Clinical Medical Affairs
Works with the team to define software requirements that may be associated with user needs and intended uses.
Supports design and review activities.
Represents the clinical perspective in defining software risk management related hazards and harms.
Supports validation, if applicable

Marketing
Responsible for the definition of user needs and intended uses.
Responsible for the review of the software requirements, user needs, product requirements, and system requirements.

Quality
Responsible for the review and approval, if applicable, of the user needs, product requirements, system requirements, and software requirements.
Ensures compliance to Quality Management System

R&D
Overall responsibility for the development of software design elements.
Responsible for software change management

Regulatory
Responsible for defining regulatory needs as they related software requirements.
Supports the review, as required, of regulatory related software requirements.

Subject Matter Expert (SME)
Responsible for the review of the user needs, product requirements, system requirements, and software requirements.
Has expert knowledge of the design being reviewed.
Has technical competency for content being reviewed.
Has been directly involved in development of the design being reviewed.

Independent Reviewer
Responsible for the review of the user needs, product requirements, system requirements, and software requirements.
Is knowledgeable of the technology of the design being reviewed.
Has technical competency appropriate for the content being reviewed.
Has not had direct responsibility for the design being reviewed.

DEFINITIONS
Refer to D0004089, Global Glossary of Terms for definitions used within the context of this document.
Activity - A set of one or more interrelated or interacting TASKS.
Anomaly - Any condition that deviates from the expected based on requirements, specifications, design documents, standards or from someone’s perceptions or experiences. Anomalies may be found during, but not limited to, the review, test, analysis, compilation, or use of software products or applicable documentation.
Can - The word “can” is used for statements of possibility and capability, whether material, physical, or causal (“can” equals “is able to”).
Class A - The software system is software safety Class A if:
The software system cannot contribute to a hazardous situation; or
The software can contribute to a hazardous situation which does not result in unacceptable risk after consideration of risk control measures external to the software system.
Class B - The software system is software safety class b if:
The software system can contribute to a hazardous situation which results in unacceptable risk after consideration of risk control measures external to the software system and the resulting possible harm is non-serious injury.
Class C - The software system is software safety class c if:
The software system can contribute to a hazardous situation which results in unacceptable risk after consideration of risk control measures external to the software system and the resulting possible harm is death or serious injury.
Configuration Item - Entity that can be uniquely identified at a given reference point.
Intended Use - The statement defining user needs and is required for regulatory submissions. The Intended Use/Indications for Use Statement provides:
A general description of the function or purpose of the device.
A description of the disease or condition that the device will diagnose, treat, prevent, cure or mitigate.
A description of the target patient population.
A description of the intended users.
Intended Use Evaluation - Potential methods of intended use evaluation include compilation of scientific literature, historical data (e.g., complaints, variances), bench testing, clinical studies, animal labs and discussions with clinicians.
Legacy Software - Software that meets the criteria for Legacy software, that is, software on the market or in a marketed device prior to when compliance to current BS EN 62304 was required.
May - The word “may” is used to indicate a course of action permissible within the limits of the procedure (“may” equals “is permitted”).
Problem Report - A record of actual or potential behavior of a software product that a user or other interested person believes to be unsafe, inappropriate for the intended use or contrary to specification.
Process - A set of interrelated or interacting ACTIVITIES that transform inputs into outputs.
Regression Testing - The testing required to determine that a change to a SYSTEM component has not adversely affected functionality, reliability or performance and has not introduced additional defects.
Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) - Conceptual structure spanning the life of the software from definition of its requirements to its release through end-of -life which:
Identifies the process, activities, and tasks involved in development of a software.
Describes the sequence of and dependency between activities and tasks.
Identifies the milestones at which the completeness of specified deliverables is verified.
Shall - The word “shall” is used to indicate mandatory requirements strictly to be followed in order to conform to the procedure and from which no deviation is permitted (“shall” equals “is required to”).
Should - The word “should” is used to indicate that among several possibilities one is recommended as particularly suitable, without mentioning or excluding others; or that a certain course of action is preferred but not necessarily required; or that (in the negative form) a certain course of action is deprecated but not prohibited (“should” equals “is recommended that”).
Software Item - Any identifiable part of a computer program, i.e., source code, object code, control code, control data, or a collection of these items.
Software System - Integrated collection of software items organized to accomplish a specific function or set of functions.
Software Unit - Software item that is not subdivided into other items.
Software of Unknown Provenance (SOUP) - Software item that is already developed and generally available and that has not been developed for the purpose of being incorporated into the medical device (also known as “off-the-shelf software”) or software previously developed for which adequate records of the development processes are not available.
Task - A single piece of work that needs to be done.
Traceability - Degree to which a relationship can be established between two or more products of the development PROCESS.
User Needs - The needs of the user and patient associated with the device.
Validation - Confirmation through the provision of objective evidence that the requirements for a specific intended use or application have been fulfilled.
Verification - Confirmation through provision of objective evidence that specified requirements have been fulfilled.
Version - Identified instance of a configuration item.

CITED AND/OR ASSOCIATED DOCUMENTS
Cited documents, including external standards, are explicitly cited within the content of this work instruction. Associated documents are those Global QMS documents (standard operating procedures, templates, forms and/or training material) that list this document as the parent document.
Document Number
Title
Type

BS EN 62304
Medical Device Software – Software Life Cycle Processes
Cited

D0003078
Global Procedure, Non-Device Software Validation
Cited

D0003103
Global Procedure, Risk Management
Cited

D0003325
Global Procedure, Nonconformance
Cited

D0004078
Global Form, Post-Market Surveillance (PMS) Plan
Associated

D0004089
Global Glossary of Terms
Cited

D0004104
Global Form, Post Market Report
Associated

D0004168
Global Template, Software Development Plan
Cited

D0004169
Global Template, Software Requirements
Cited

D0004170
Global Template, Software Configuration Management Plan
Cited

D0004171
Global Template, Software Maintenance Plan
Cited

D0004197
Global Template, Software Architecture
Cited

D0004198
Global Template, Software Anomaly Report
Cited

D0004199
Global Template, Version Description Document
Cited

D0017982
Global Template, Software Verification Protocol
Cited

D0017983
Global Template, Software Verification Report
Cited

D0017984
Global Template, Verification Summary Report
Cited

D0017985
Global Template, Software Traceability Matrix
Cited

D0017986
Global Template, Software Detailed Design Document
Cited

D0029257
Global Work Instruction, Cybersecurity for Medical Devices
Cited

INSTRUCTIONS
The following figure illustrates the overview of the software development process, as represented in BS EN 62304.

/

Software Development activities are based upon the Software Safety Class (A, B or C) of the software system. In determining the scope of work, all software systems need to be classified in accordance with Appendix 10.1 Software Safety Classification. The Software Safety Classification of each system shall be documented in the risk management file.

Legacy Software (BS EN 62304 section 4.4)
For medical device software that was developed for which there is insufficient objective evidence that it was developed according to the current BS EN 62304 standard, compliance may be demonstrated by either:
Applying BS EN 62304 Clauses 4.4.2 through 4.4.5, or
Applying BS EN 62304 Clauses 5 through 9

Applying BS EN 62304 Clauses 4.4.2 through 4.4.5 may be a less burdensome approach. To accomplish compliance through this method, the following shall be accomplished:
Perform risk management activities associated with the continued use of legacy software, incorporating any available feedback including post-production information including incidents and near incidents.
Perform a gap analysis based on the Software Safety Classification to determine the required deliverables missing.
Establish and execute a plan to generate the identified deliverables.
Document the version of the legacy software with a rationale for the continued use.

Software Development Planning (BS EN 62304 section 5.1)
Software Development Plan
A Software Development Plan shall be established for conducting activities appropriate to the scope, magnitude, and Software Safety Classification of the software system to be developed. The Software Development Plan may follow D0004168, Global Template, Software Development Plan, or equivalent. The plan shall be updated whenever appropriate throughout the development process.

Software Development Planning shall address the following:
The Software Safety Classification (BS EN 62304)
The processes and activities used to develop the Software System (e.g., SOP references, description of activities).
Software deliverables (e.g., software requirements documents, software design, and architecture documents).
A description of how the requirements will trace to higher-level system requirements, risk management, and testing.
The Software Problem Resolution Process used to describe how software anomalies and other issues discovered during software development are tracked and resolved.
The plan for verifying software requirements, including verification tasks (e.g., protocol development, execution, reporting, regression), the associated milestones, and high-level acceptance criteria.
Software risk management planning (this may reference the overall risk management plan if appropriate).
A description or reference to the Software Configuration Management Plan.
Prior to release of the software to production, the maintenance plan for software.
For Class B and C devices:
A plan or reference to a plan for unit testing,
Software integration and integration testing. It is acceptable to combine unit testing, integration testing and software testing into a single plan and set of activities.
Identification and avoidance of common software defects which are introduced based on the selected programming technology that are relevant to the software system and providing evidence that these do not contribute to unacceptable risks.
For Class C devices:
Standards, Methods, and Tools shall be included or referenced. (e.g., BS EN 62304, FDA Guidance, Internal Coding Standards)

Software Requirements (BS EN 62304 section 5.2)
Software Requirements shall be defined based on higher-level requirements and may be documented using D0004169, Global Template, Software Requirements, or equivalent. In situations where requirements management tools are used, the tool implementation shall ensure that the fields contained within D0004169, Global Template, Software Requirements, are part of the tool database.
Software Requirements shall be reviewed, and updated, when necessary, to ensure they do not contradict one another, are expressed in terms that avoid ambiguity, are stated in terms that permit establishment of test criteria and performance of tests, can be uniquely identified, and are traceable to higher-level requirements or other source documents.
For Class B and C devices:
Software Requirements shall include risk control measures that are to be implemented in software.

Software Architecture (BS EN 62304 section 5.3)
For Class B and C devices:
Software Architecture shall be developed based on the associated Software Requirements and risk controls to define major structural components of the software, their externally visible properties, and the relationship among them.
Software Architecture may be documented using D0004197, Global Template, Software Architecture, or equivalent.
Software Architecture shall include a description of SOUP items, including their functional and performance requirements, and a description of the hardware and software necessary to support the SOUP.
Software Architecture shall include a description of interfaces (e.g., communications, function calls) between different Software Items and between Software Items and hardware.
Software Architecture shall be verified to confirm:
The architecture of the software implements system and software requirements including those relating to risk control,
The software architecture can support interfaces between software items and between software items and hardware, and
The medical device architecture supports proper operation of any SOUP items.
For Class C devices:
Segregation between software items shall be identified for risk control and state how to ensure the segregation is effective.
Software Detailed Design (BS EN 62304 section 5.4)
For Class B and C devices:
Software Detailed Design shall be performed for all software units and may follow D0017986 Global Template, Software Detailed Design Document, or equivalent.
The software shall be subdivided until it is represented by software units.

For Class C devices:
The software detailed design shall include a description of interfaces between the Software Unit and external components (hardware and software) and a review of the software detailed design shall be conducted to verify that the software detailed design:
Implements the software architecture, and
Is free from contradiction with the software architecture.
Software Unit Implementation (BS EN 62304 section 5.5)
Code shall be developed based on Software Requirements, and when applicable, Software Architecture, and Software Detailed Design.
For Class B and C Software, the method for code review and acceptance criteria of unit implementation will be defined in the software development plan.
Unit-level testing shall be completed with the level of detail based on the risk of the software unit as defined in the software development plan.
For higher-risk Class C Software Units, the following additional acceptance criteria should be considered:
proper event sequence,
data and flow control,
planned resource allocation,
fault handling (error definition, isolation, and recovery),
initialization of variables,
self-diagnostics,
memory management and memory overflows,
boundary conditions.
Software Integration and Integration Testing (BS EN 62304 section 5.6)
For Class B and C items:
All Software Units shall be integrated per the integration plan defined in the Software Development Plan. Software Integration and Integration Testing shall be performed for all software Items. As applicable, integration tests shall demonstrate program behavior at the boundaries of its input and output domains and confirm program responses to invalid, unexpected, and special inputs.
As appropriate, regression testing shall be conducted during integration testing to demonstrate that defects have not been introduced into previously tested software.
Software Integration and Software System Testing may be combined into a single plan and set of activities.
Software System Testing (BS EN 62304 section 5.7)
Software System Testing shall be defined in the Software Development Plan. All software used for system verification shall be formally documented as released for testing (or equivalent, e.g., “Pilot”) prior to the execution of testing. All software formally released for distribution shall have completed software and system verification prior to full release.
Software Verification Protocols shall be created that demonstrate program behavior at the boundaries of its input and output domains and confirm program responses to invalid, unexpected, and special inputs. Software Verification Protocols may use D0017982, Global Template, Software Verification Protocol, or equivalent, and D0017983, Global Template, Software Verification Report, or equivalent.
As appropriate, regression testing may be conducted during system testing to demonstrate that defects have not been introduced into previously tested software.
Anomalies detected during the software test cycle shall be maintained in accordance with the project’s Software Problem Resolution Process defined in the Software Development Plan. Software anomalies detected during verification may be documented using D0004198 Global Template, Software Anomaly Report, or equivalent. Software anomalies may also be tracked from creation to closure using a defect tracking software (e.g., Jira, Azure DevOps).
Traceability of software requirements to software items and software testing results (including unit and integration testing as required) shall be documented and may use D0017985, Global Template, Software Traceability Matrix, or equivalent. A formal design review shall be conducted to confirm the completion of the software deliverables defined in the Software Development Plan. This design review may be combined with other design reviews as appropriate. A report following D0017984, Global Template, Verification Summary Report, or equivalent, may be created to summarize the results of several Software Verification Reports, if appropriate.
Software Integration and System Testing may be combined into a single plan and set of activities.
Software Release (BS EN 62304 section 5.8)
The Software Development Plan shall document, or reference, the software release process, archival, and delivery to the point of use without corruption or unauthorized changes.
Software verification activities shall be completed prior to release to production.
Any known residual anomalies shall be documented.
All versions of software being released for verification testing or for production shall be documented. D0004199, Global Template, Version Description Document, or equivalent may be used to document known residual anomalies and the released version for testing.
For Class B and C devices:
All known unresolved anomalies shall also be evaluated to ensure they do not contribute to unacceptable risk and documented as part of D0004199 Global Template, Version Description Document, or equivalent.
The procedure and environment used to create the released software shall be documented.
Software Maintenance (BS EN 62304 section 6.1)
A Software Maintenance Plan shall be developed and may use D0004171, Global Template, Software Maintenance Plan, or equivalent. The plan shall address the following:
Procedures for receiving, documenting, evaluating, resolving, and tracking feedback arising after software release.
Criteria for determining whether feedback is considered a problem (see Requirements for Complaint Management).
Use of the software risk management process.
Use of the Software Problem Resolution Process for analyzing and resolving problems arising after release of the software.
Use of the software configuration management process for managing modifications to the existing system.
Procedures to evaluate and implement the upgrades, bug fixes, patches, and obsolescence of SOUP.
As required by local regulation, the manufacturer may need to inform users and regulators regarding any problem with the released software and consequence of continued use along with the nature of any available software, how to obtain, and install these changes.
Software-Specific Elements of the Risk Management Process (BS EN 62304 section 7)
Risk analysis of products shall be in accordance with the overall project Risk Management Plan. This shall identify software items that may contribute to a hazardous situation involving software, including SOUP.
If a risk control measure is implemented in the software, it shall be included in the Software Requirements.
A software safety class shall be assigned to software Items based on the possible effects of the risk that the risk control measure is controlling.
If a risk control measure is implemented as a software Item, any new sequence of events that could result in a hazardous situation shall be identified in the Risk Management File – See D0003103 Global Procedure, Risk Management.
For Class B and C Software:
Traceability of software hazards shall be documented as appropriate from the hazardous situation to the software item to the specific software cause to the risk control measure to the verification of the risk control measure.
The process for managing risks associated with data and security shall be defined in or referenced from the Software Development Plan. The process shall provide a methodology for identifying vulnerabilities, estimating, and evaluating the associated threats, controlling these threats, and monitoring the effectiveness of the risk controls. See D0029257, Global Work Instruction, Cybersecurity for Medical Devices for details.
Software Configuration Management (BS EN 62304 section 8)
A Software Configuration Management Plan shall be established for the software development, and may follow D0004170, Global Template, Software Configuration Management Plan, or equivalent.

The Software Configuration Management Plan shall address:
Tools used in developing the software (e.g., compilers, bug trackers).
A description of how the software is controlled, including how changes are managed, and how SOUP is handled.
Categories (or lists) of items that will be controlled.
Tasks and activities related to Configuration Management.
For Class B and C devices:
How items that support software development are controlled. Examples may include software tools that require validation and control (in accordance with D0003078, Global Procedure, Non-Device Software Validation). (e.g., compiler/assembler versions, make files, batch files, environment settings)

Software configuration management provides the ability to recreate a software item, to identify its constituent parts, and to provide a history of the changes that have been made to it.
Configuration Identification shall be governed by the Software Configuration Management Plan, including management of all configuration items (e.g., source code, documentation, SOUP). There shall be a means to identify configuration items by unique name and version number. This scheme shall include other Software Products or entities such as SOUP and documentation.
The configuration items (e.g., source code, documentation, SOUP) shall be maintained in validated, controlled, and auditable repositories (e.g., Agile) for at least the life of the Software Product, or as long as the product is supported for human use, whichever comes first.

Software Problem Resolution Process (BS EN 62304 section 9)
The Software Development Plan shall address the handling of software anomalies.
Once the product is developed and in production, anomalies shall be handled in accordance with the Software Maintenance Plan. Any complaints for which an action is needed by the software team shall be logged and tracked until it is dispositioned. See D0003325, Global Procedure, Nonconformance as required consideration of software related complaint escalation.
All anomalies identified shall be investigated, evaluated for safety, and will result in a change request or rationale for taking no action. Any actions taken to resolve the anomaly shall be verified and ensure the change did not result in additional anomalies.

APPROVALS
Functional Role
Printed Name
Signature
Date

Document Owner – Sr. Supervisor Quality Engineering, Software
Richard Bradshaw
See Agile
See Agile

Senior Design Development Manager
Anmol Nagre
See Agile
See Agile

Director, Global Quality Engineering for Hardware/Software
Kathy Kuhlow
See Agile
See Agile

REVISION HISTORY
Revision Level

Change Order Number
Summary of Changes

01
AGLCO-001688
Release from pilot to production.

02
CO000871
Administrative revision to update document references to Global Agile numbers. Approval section updated for this administrative revision to change the Document Owner to Carl Santos and Quality approver to Ron Aplin.

03
CO016985
Entire document rewrite with updates centered around alignment to BS EN 62304, making optional the use of suggested templates. Removed invalid references, updated reference to new Cybersecurity Work Instruction, updated the document owner to Richard Bradshaw.

APPENDICES
Software Safety Classification
Software Safety Classification Process
Guidance Documents

Appendix 1 - Software Safety Classification
A software product may contain multiple software systems, and each system may contain multiple software items. The classification process, based on risk, determines the safety class for each software system and each software item. From this comprehensive classification, the software deliverables may be appropriately tailored for a given project. Claims for any A or B classification analysis/actions shall be documented to support the claims.

Medical Device Classification
The following table defines the software safety classifications for Acme medical devices.

Software Classification
Definition

A
The SOFTWARE SYSTEM is software safety Class A if:

The SOFTWARE SYSTEM cannot contribute to a HAZARDOUS SITUATION; or
The SOFTWARE SYSTEM can contribute to a HAZARDOUS SITUATION which does not result in unacceptable RISK after consideration of RISK CONTROL measures external to the SOFTWARE SYSTEM.

B
The SOFTWARE SYSTEM is software safety Class B if:

The SOFTWARE SYSTEM can contribute to a HAZARDOUS SITUATION which results in unacceptable RISK after consideration of RISK CONTROL measures external to the SOFTWARE SYSTEM and the resulting possible HARM is non-SERIOUS INJURY.

C
The SOFTWARE SYSTEM is software safety Class C if:

The SOFTWARE SYSTEM can contribute to a HAZARDOUS SITUATION which results in unacceptable RISK after consideration of RISK CONTROL measures external to the SOFTWARE SYSTEM and the resulting possible HARM is death or SERIOUS INJURY.

Appendix 2 - Software Safety Classification Process
Responsibility
Action

R&D with Clinical Medical Affairs
Determine if the software is a medical device. If the software is driving a surgical device, it is clearly a “medical device.” However, if it is a “supporting product,” determine first if it is a medical device. Is the output of the supporting product necessary for the medical device to:
Diagnosis a disease or other conditions,
Cure a disease,
Mitigation of a disease,
Treatment of a disease, or
Prevention of a disease?

If the software is an accessory or supporting product, and the output is required for the medical device to meet its intended use, then the accessory is considered a medical device as well.

If the software is not a medical device, it can be treated from a process standpoint as Class A (and the rest of this process does not apply).

R&D with Clinical Medical Affairs
Determine the software safety classification using the medical device classification table above to determine the classification in terms of possible effects on patients or others. In determining the software safety classification of the software system, the probability of a software failure shall be assumed to be 1.

Appendix 3 - Guidance Documents
Source
Title

FDA
General Principles of Software Validation; Final Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff

FDA
Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices

FDA
Mobile Medical Applications; Guidance for Industry and Food and Drug Administration Staff

FDA
Content of Premarket Submissions for Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices

FDA
Cybersecurity for Networked Medical Devices Containing Off-the-Shelf (OTS) Software
