# BSEN 62304 - Medical Device Software Lifecycle Processes

## Page 1

Copyright Info:  ©2015 ,  The British Standards InstitutionICS: 35.080, 11.040.01, 35.240.80Committees: CH/62/1Publication Date: 30 Nov 2015Publisher: BSIInternational relationships:  IEC 62304:2006/AMD1:2015 IdenticalVersion History: Incorporating corrigendum November 2008Amends:  BS EN 62304:2006 , BS EN 62304:2006
National foreword
This British Standard is the UK implementation of EN 62304:2006+A1:2015, incorporating corrigendum November 2008. It is identical to IEC 62304:2006, incorporating amendment 1:2015.It supersedes BS EN 62304:2006, which will be withdrawn on 31 July 2018.
The start and ﬁnish of text introduced or altered by amendment is indicated in the text by tags. Tags indicating changes to IEC text carry the number of the IEC amendment. For example, textaltered by IEC amendment 1 is indicated by.
The UK participation in its preparation was entrusted by Technical Committee CH/62, Electrical Equipment in Medical Practice, to Subcommittee CH/62/1, Common aspects of ElectricalEquipment used in Medical Practice.
A list of organizations represented on this subcommittee can be obtained on request to its secretary.
This publication does not purport to include all the necessary provisions of a contract. Users are responsible for its correct application.
Compliance with a British Standard cannot confer immunity from legal obligations.
This British Standard was published under the authority of the Standards Policy and Strategy Committee on 30 November 2006
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
BS EN 62304:2006+A1:2015Medical device software. Software life-cycle processes
STANDARD CURRENT AMENDMENT ADDED (2) Document added to 2 proﬁle(s):Teleﬂex (Vascular Solutions)Teleﬂex Standards Watchlist 
Amendments/corrigenda issued since publication
Date Comments
31 May 2011 Implementation of CENELEC corrigendum November 2008; modiﬁcation of CENELEC Foreword and addition of Annex ZZ
30 November 2015Implementation of IEC amendment 1:2015 with CENELEC endorsement A1:2015.

 
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 1/80

## Page 2

Foreword
The text of document 62A/523/FDIS, future edition 1 of IEC 62304, prepared by a joint working group of SC 62A, Common aspects of electrical equipment used in medical practice, of IECtechnical committee 62, Electrical equipment in medical practice, and ISO Technical Committee 210, Quality management and corresponding general aspects for medical devices, wassubmitted to the IEC-CENELEC parallel vote and was approved by CENELEC as EN 62304 on 2006-06-01.
The following dates were ﬁxed:
In this standard the following print types are used:
requirements and deﬁnitions: in roman type;
informative material appearing outside of tables, such as notes, examples and references: in smaller type. Normative text of tables is also in a smaller type;
terms used throughout this standard that have been deﬁned in Clause 3 and also given in the index: IN SMALL CAPITALS.
An asterisk (\*) as the ﬁrst character of a title or at the beginning of a paragraph indicates that there is guidance related to that item in Annex B.
Table C.5 was prepared by ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 7, Software and system engineering.
This European Standard has been prepared under a mandate given to CENELEC by the European Commission and the European Free Trade Association and covers essential requirements ofEC Directives 93/42/EEC, 90/385/EC and 98/79/EC. See Annex ZZ.
Annexes ZA and ZZ have been added by CENELEC.
The contents of the corrigendum of November 2008 have been included in this copy.
—
—
—
Endorsement notice
The text of the International Standard IEC 62304:2006 was approved by CENELEC as a European Standard without any modiﬁcation.
Foreword to amendment A1
The text of document 62A/1007/FDIS, future IEC 62304:2006/A1, prepared by SC 62A "Common aspects of electrical equipment used in medical practice" of IEC/TC 62 "Electrical equipmentin medical practice" was submitted to the IEC-CENELEC parallel vote and approved by CENELEC as EN 62304:2006/A1:2015.
The following dates are ﬁxed:
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
Date Comments

 
— latest date by which the EN has to be implemented at national level by publication of an identical national standard or by endorsement(dop) 2007-03-01
— latest date by which the national standards conﬂicting with the EN have to be withdrawn(dow) 2009-06-01
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 2/80

## Page 3

Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent rights. CENELEC [and/or CEN] shall not be held responsible for identifying any orall such patent rights.
This document has been prepared under a mandate given to CENELEC by the European Commission and the European Free Trade Association, and supports essential requirements of EUDirective.
For the relationship with EU Directive 93/42/EEC, 98/79/EC, 90/385/EEC see informative Annex ZZ, included in EN 62304:2006/corrigendum Nov. 2008.
Endorsement notice
The text of the International Standard IEC 62304:2006/A1:2015 was approved by CENELEC as a European Standard without any modiﬁcation.
In the ofﬁcial version, for Bibliography, the following notes have to be added for the standards indicated:
Replace the existing references with the following:
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
• latest date by which the document has to be implemented at national level by publication of an identical nationalstandard or by endorsement (dop) 2016-05-01
• latest date by which the national standards conﬂicting with the document have to be withdrawn(dow) 2018-07-31
IEC 60601‑1:2005 NOTE    Harmonized as EN 60601‑1:2006.
IEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012 NOTE    Harmonized as EN 60601‑1:2006/A1:2013.
IEC 60601‑1‑4:1996 NOTE    Harmonized as EN 60601‑1‑4:1996
.
IEC 60601‑1‑4:1996/AMD1:1999 NOTE    Harmonized as EN 60601‑1‑4:1996/A1:1999.
IEC 60601‑1‑6 NOTE    Harmonized as EN 60601‑1‑6.
IEC 61508‑3 NOTE    Harmonized as EN 61508‑3.
IEC 61010‑1:2010 NOTE    Harmonized as EN 61010‑1:2010.
ISO 9000:2005 NOTE    Harmonized as EN ISO 9000:2005.
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 3/80

## Page 4

FOREWORD
 1)  The International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) is a worldwide organization for standardization comprising all national electrotechnical committees (IEC National Committees). Theobject of IEC is to promote international co-operation on all questions concerning standardization in the electrical and electronic ﬁelds. To this end and in addition to other activities, IECpublishes International Standards, Technical Speciﬁcations, Technical Reports, Publicly Available Speciﬁcations (PAS) and Guides (hereafter referred to as “IEC Publication(s)”). Theirpreparation is entrusted to technical committees; any IEC National Committee interested in the subject dealt with may participate in this preparatory work. International, governmental andnon-governmental organizations liaising with the IEC also participate in this preparation. IEC collaborates closely with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) inaccordance with conditions determined by agreement between the two organizations.
 2)  The formal decisions or agreements of IEC on technical matters express, as nearly as possible, an international consensus of opinion on the relevant subjects since each technicalcommittee has representation from all interested IEC National Committees.
 3)  IEC Publications have the form of recommendations for international use and are accepted by IEC National Committees in that sense. While all reasonable efforts are made to ensure thatthe technical content of IEC Publications is accurate, IEC cannot be held responsible for the way in which they are used or for any misinterpretation by any end user.
 4)  In order to promote international uniformity, IEC National Committees undertake to apply IEC Publications transparently to the maximum extent possible in their national and regionalpublications. Any divergence between any IEC Publication and the corresponding national or regional publication shall be clearly indicated in the latter.
 5)  IEC provides no marking procedure to indicate its approval and cannot be rendered responsible for any equipment declared to be in conformity with an IEC Publication.
 6)  All users should ensure that they have the latest edition of this publication.
 7)  No liability shall attach to IEC or its directors, employees, servants or agents including individual experts and members of its technical committees and IEC National Committees for anypersonal injury, property damage or other damage of any nature whatsoever, whether direct or indirect, or for costs (including legal fees) and expenses arising out of the publication, use of,or reliance upon, this IEC Publication or any other IEC Publications.
 8)  Attention is drawn to the Normative references cited in this publication. Use of the referenced publications is indispensable for the correct application of this publication.
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
ISO 9001:2008 NOTE    Harmonized as EN ISO 9001:2008.
ISO 13485:2003 NOTE    Harmonized as EN ISO 13485:2003.
IEC 62366‑1:2015 NOTE    Harmonized as EN 62366‑1:2015.
IEC 82304‑1 NOTE    Harmonized as EN 82304‑11)
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 4/80

## Page 5

 9)  Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this IEC Publication may be the subject of patent rights. IEC shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all suchpatent rights.
International Standard IEC 62304 has been prepared by a joint working group of subcommittee 62A: Common aspects of electrical equipment used in medical practice, of IEC technicalcommittee 62: Electrical equipment in medical practice and ISO Technical Committee 210, Quality management and corresponding general aspects for MEDICAL DEVICES. Table C.5 was preparedby ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 7, Software and system engineering.
It is published as a dual logo standard.
The text of this standard is based on the following documents:
Full information on the voting for the approval of this standard can be found in the report on voting indicated in the above table. In ISO, the standard has been approved by 23 P-members outof 23 having cast a vote.
This publication has been drafted in accordance with the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2.
In this standard the following print types are used:
requirements and deﬁnitions: in roman type;
informative material appearing outside of tables, such as notes, examples and references: in smaller type. Normative text of tables is also in a smaller type;
terms used throughout this standard that have been deﬁned in Clause 3 and also given in the index: in small capitals.
An asterisk (\*) as the ﬁrst character of a title or at the beginning of a paragraph indicates that there is guidance related to that item in Annex B.
The committee has decided that the contents of this publication will remain unchanged until the maintenance result date indicated on the IEC web site under “http://webstore.iec.ch” in thedata related to the speciﬁc publication. At this date, the publication will be
reconﬁrmed;
withdrawn;
replaced by a revised edition, or
amended.
NOTE    The attention of National Committees is drawn to the fact that equipment MANUFACTURERS and testing organizations may need a transitional period following publication of a new, amended or revised IEC orISO publication in which to make products in accordance with the new requirements and to equip themselves for conducting new or revised tests. It is the recommendation of the committee that the content ofthis publication be adopted for mandatory implementation nationally not earlier than 3 years from the date of publication.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
INTRODUCTION
Software is often an integral part of MEDICAL DEVICE technology. Establishing the SAFETY and effectiveness of a MEDICAL DEVICE containing software requires knowledge of what the software isintended to do and demonstration that the use of the software fulﬁls those intentions without causing any unacceptable RISKS.
This standard provides a framework of life cycle PROCESSES with ACTIVITIES and TASKS necessary for the safe design and maintenance of MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. This standard provides requirementsfor each life cycle PROCESS. Each life cycle PROCESS consists of a set of ACTIVITIES, with most ACTIVITIES consisting of a set of TASKS.
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
FDIS Report on voting
62A/523/FDIS 62A/528/RVD
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 5/80

## Page 6

As a basic foundation it is assumed that MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE is developed and maintained within a quality management system (see 4.1) and a RISK MANAGEMENT system (see 4.2). The RISKMANAGEMENT PROCESS is already very well addressed by the International Standard ISO 14971. Therefore IEC 62304 makes use of this advantage simply by a normative reference to ISO 14971.Some minor additional RISK MANAGEMENT requirements are needed for software, especially in the area of identiﬁcation of contributing software factors related to HAZARDS. These requirements aresummarized and captured in Clause 7 as the software RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS.
Whether software is a contributing factor to a HAZARDOUS SITUATION is determined during the HAZARD identiﬁcation ACTIVITY of the RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS. HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS that could beindirectly caused by software (for example, by providing misleading information that could cause inappropriate treatment to be administered) need to be considered when determiningwhether software is a contributing factor. The decision to use software to control RISK is made during the RISK CONTROL ACTIVITY of the RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS. The software RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESSrequired in this standard has to be embedded in the device RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS according to ISO 14971.
The software development PROCESS consists of a number of ACTIVITIES. These ACTIVITIES are shown in Figure 1 and described in Clause 5. Because many incidents in the ﬁeld are related to serviceor maintenance of MEDICAL DEVICE SYSTEMS including inappropriate software updates and upgrades, the software maintenance PROCESS is considered to be as important as the softwaredevelopment PROCESS. The software maintenance PROCESS is very similar to the software development PROCESS. It is shown in Figure 2 and described in Clause 6.
Figure 1 — Overview of software development PROCESSES and ACTIVITIES
Figure 2 — Overview of software maintenance PROCESSES and ACTIVITIES
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 6/80

## Page 7

This standard identiﬁes two additional PROCESSES considered essential for developing safe MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. They are the software conﬁguration management PROCESS (Clause 8) and thesoftware problem resolution PROCESS (Clause 9).
Amendment 1 updates the standard to add requirements to deal with LEGACY SOFTWARE, where the software design is prior to the existence of the current version, to assist manufacturers whomust show compliance to the standard to meet European Directives. Software safety classiﬁcation changes include clariﬁcation of requirements and updating of the software safetyclassiﬁcation to include a risk-based approach.
This standard does not specify an organizational structure for the MANUFACTURER or which part of the organization is to perform which PROCESS, ACTIVITY, or TASK. This standard requires only thatthe PROCESS, ACTIVITY, or TASK be completed to establish compliance with this standard.
This standard does not prescribe the name, format, or explicit content of the documentation to be produced. This standard requires documentation of TASKS, but the decision of how topackage this documentation is left to the user of the standard.
This standard does not prescribe a speciﬁc life cycle model. The users of this standard are responsible for selecting a life cycle model for the software project and for mapping the PROCESSES,ACTIVITIES, and TASKS in this standard onto that model.
Annex A provides rationale for the clauses of this standard. Annex B provides guidance on the provisions of this standard.
For the purposes of this standard:
“shall” means that compliance with a requirement is mandatory for compliance with this standard;
“should” means that compliance with a requirement is recommended but is not mandatory for compliance with this standard;
•
•
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 7/80

## Page 8

“may” is used to describe a permissible way to achieve compliance with a requirement;
“establish” means to deﬁne, document, and implement; and
where this standard uses the term “as appropriate” in conjunction with a required PROCESS, ACTIVITY, TASK or output, the intention is that the MANUFACTURER shall use the PROCESS, ACTIVITY, TASKor output unless the MANUFACTURER can document a justiﬁcation for not so doing.
•
•
•
1 Scope
1.1 * Purpose
This standard deﬁnes the life cycle requirements for MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. The set of PROCESSES, ACTIVITIES, and TASKS described in this standard establishes a common framework for MEDICALDEVICE SOFTWARE life cycle PROCESSES.
1.2 * Field of application
This standard applies to the development and maintenance of MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE when software is itself a MEDICAL DEVICE or when software is an embedded or integral part of the ﬁnalMEDICAL DEVICE.
NOTE 1    This standard can be used in the development and maintenance of software that is itself a medical device. However, additional development activities are needed at the system level before this type ofsoftware can be placed into service. These system activities are not covered by this standard, but can be found in IEC 82304‑12[22].
This standard describes PROCESSES that are intended to be applied to software which executes on a processor or which is executed by other software (for example an interpreter) whichexecutes on a processor.
This standard applies regardless of the persistent storage device(s) used to store the software (for example: hard disk, optical disk, permanent or ﬂash memory).
This standard applies regardless of the method of delivery of the software (for example: transmission by network or email, optical disk, ﬂash memory or EEPROM). The method of softwaredelivery itself is not considered MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE.
This standard does not cover validation and ﬁnal release of the MEDICAL DEVICE, even when the MEDICAL DEVICE consists entirely of software.
NOTE 2    If a medical device incorporates embedded software intended to be executed on a processor, the requirements of this standard apply to the software, including the requirements concerning software ofunknown provenance (see 8.1.2).
NOTE 3    Validation and other development activities are needed at the system level before the software and medical device can be placed into service. These system activities are not covered by this standard, butcan be found in related product standards (e.g., IEC 60601‑1, IEC 82304‑1, etc.).
1.3 Relationship to other standards
This MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE life cycle standard is to be used together with other appropriate standards when developing a MEDICAL DEVICE. Annex C shows the relationship between this standardand other relevant standards.
1.4 Compliance
Compliance with this standard is deﬁned as implementing all of the PROCESSES, ACTIVITIES, and TASKS identiﬁed in this standard in accordance with the software safety class.
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 8/80

## Page 9

NOTE    The software safety classes assigned to each requirement are identiﬁed in the normative text following the requirement.
Compliance is determined by inspection of all documentation required by this standard including the RISK MANAGEMENT FILE, and assessment of the PROCESSES, ACTIVITIES and TASKS required for thesoftware safety class.
NOTE 1    This assessment could be carried out by internal or external audit.
NOTE 2    Although the speciﬁed PROCESSES, ACTIVITIES, and TASKS are performed, ﬂexibility exists in the methods of implementing these PROCESSES and performing these ACTIVITIES and TASKS.
NOTE 3    Where any requirements contain “as appropriate” and were not performed, documentation for the justiﬁcation is necessary for this assessment.
NOTE 4    The term “conformance” is used in ISO/IEC 12207 where the term “compliance” is used in this standard.
NOTE 5    For compliance of LEGACY SOFTWARE see 4.4.
2 * Normative references
The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application of this document. For dated references, only the edition cited applies. For undated references, the latest edition ofthe referenced document (including any amendments) applies.
ISO 14971, Medical devices — Application of risk management to medical devices.
3 * Terms and definitions
For the purposes of this document, the following terms and deﬁnitions apply.
3.1ACTIVITYa set of one or more interrelated or interacting TASKS
3.2ANOMALYany condition that deviates from the expected based on requirements speciﬁcations, design documents, standards, etc. or from someone’s perceptions or experiences. ANOMALIES may befound during, but not limited to, the review, test, analysis, compilation, or use of MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE or applicable documentation
NOTE TO ENTRY  Based on IEEE 1044:1993, deﬁnition 3.1.
3.3ARCHITECTUREorganizational structure of a SYSTEM or component
[SOURCE: IEEE 610.12:1990]
3.4CHANGE REQUESTa documented speciﬁcation of a change to be made to a MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE
3.5CONFIGURATION ITEMentity that can be uniquely identiﬁed at a given reference point
NOTE TO ENTRY  Based on ISO/IEC 12207:2008, 4.7
3.6DELIVERABLErequired result or output (includes documentation) of an ACTIVITY or TASK
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 9/80

## Page 10

3.7EVALUATIONa systematic determination of the extent to which an entity meets its speciﬁed criteria
[SOURCE: ISO/IEC 12207:2008, 4.12]
3.8HARMphysical injury, damage, or both to the health of people or damage to property or the environment
[SOURCE: ISO 14971:2007, 2.2]
3.9HAZARDpotential source of HARM
[SOURCE: ISO 14971:2007, 2.3]
3.10MANUFACTURERnatural or legal person with responsibility for designing, manufacturing, packaging, or labelling a MEDICAL DEVICE; assembling a SYSTEM; or adapting a MEDICAL DEVICE before it is placed on themarket and/or put into service, regardless of whether these operations are carried out by that person or by a third party on that person’s behalf
[SOURCE: ISO 14971:2007, 2.8]
NOTE 1 TO ENTRY  Attention is drawn to the fact that the provisions of national or regional regulations can apply to the deﬁnition of manufacturer.
NOTE 2 TO ENTRY  For a deﬁnition of labelling, see ISO 13485:2003, deﬁnition 3.6.
3.11MEDICAL DEVICEany instrument, apparatus, implement, machine, appliance, implant, in vitro reagent or calibrator, software, material or other similar or related article, intended by the MANUFACTURER to beused, alone or in combination, for human beings for one or more of the speciﬁc purpose(s) of
diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment or alleviation of disease,
diagnosis, monitoring, treatment, alleviation of or compensation for an injury,
investigation, replacement, modiﬁcation, or support of the anatomy or of a physiological PROCESS,
supporting or sustaining life,
control of conception,
disinfection of MEDICAL DEVICES,
providing information for medical purposes by means of in vitro examination of specimens derived from the human body,
and which does not achieve its primary intended action in or on the human body by pharmacological, immunological or metabolic means, but which may be assisted in its function by suchmeans
NOTE 1 TO ENTRY  This deﬁnition has been developed by the Global Harmonization Task Force (GHTF). See bibliographic reference [15] (in ISO 13485:2003).
[SOURCE: ISO 13485:2003, deﬁnition 3.7]
NOTE 2 TO ENTRY  Some differences can occur in the deﬁnitions used in regulations of each country.
NOTE 3 TO ENTRY  In conjunction with IEC 60601‑1:2005 and IEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012 the term “medical device” assumes the same meaning as ME EQUIPMENT or ME SYSTEM (which aredeﬁned terms of IEC 60601‑1).
3.12MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARESOFTWARE SYSTEM that has been developed for the purpose of being incorporated into the MEDICAL DEVICE being developed or that is intended for use as a MEDICAL DEVICE
NOTE TO ENTRY  This includes a MEDICAL DEVICE software product, which then is a MEDICAL DEVICE in its own right.
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 10/80

## Page 11

3.13PROBLEM REPORTa record of actual or potential behaviour of a MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE that a user or other interested person believes to be unsafe, inappropriate for the intended use or contrary tospeciﬁcation
NOTE 1 TO ENTRY  This standard does not require that every PROBLEM REPORT results in a change to the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. A MANUFACTURER can reject a PROBLEM REPORT as amisunderstanding, error or insigniﬁcant event.
NOTE 2 TO ENTRY  A PROBLEM REPORT can relate to a released MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE or to a MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE that is still under development.
NOTE 3 TO ENTRY  This standard requires the MANUFACTURER to perform extra decision making steps (see Clause 6) for a PROBLEM REPORT relating to a released product to ensure thatregulatory actions are identiﬁed and implemented.
3.14PROCESSa set of interrelated or interacting ACTIVITIES that transform inputs into outputs
[SOURCE: ISO 9000:2000, deﬁnition 3.4.1]
NOTE TO ENTRY  The term “ACTIVITIES” covers use of resources.
3.15REGRESSION TESTINGthe testing required to determine that a change to a SYSTEM component has not adversely affected functionality, reliability or performance and has not introduced additional defects
[SOURCE: ISO/IEC 90003:2004, deﬁnition 3.11]
3.16RISKcombination of the probability of occurrence of HARM and the severity of that HARM
[SOURCE: ISO 14971:2007, 2.16]
3.17RISK ANALYSISsystematic use of available information to identify HAZARDS and to estimate the RISK
[SOURCE: ISO 14971:2007, 2.17]
3.18RISK CONTROLPROCESS in which decisions are made and RISKS are reduced to, or maintained within, speciﬁed levels
[SOURCE: ISO 14971:2007, 2.19]
3.19RISK MANAGEMENTsystematic application of management policies, procedures, and practices to the TASKS of analyzing, evaluating, and controlling RISK
[SOURCE: ISO 14971:2007, 2.22, modiﬁed – The phrase “and monitoring” has been removed]]
3.20RISK MANAGEMENT FILEset of records and other documents, not necessarily contiguous, that are produced by a RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
[SOURCE: ISO 14971:2007, 2.23]
3.21SAFETYfreedom from unacceptable RISK
[SOURCE: ISO 14971:2007, 2.24]
3.22SECURITYprotection of information and data so that unauthorized persons or systems cannot read or modify them an authorized persons or systems are not denied access to them.
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 11/80

## Page 12

NOTE TO ENTRY  Based on ISO/IEC 12207:2008, 4.39.
3.23SERIOUS INJURYinjury or illness that:
a) is life threatening,
b) results in permanent impairment of a body function or permanent damage to a body structure, or
c) necessitates medical or surgical intervention to prevent permanent impairment of a body function or permanent damage to a body structure
NOTE TO ENTRY  Permanent impairment means an irreversible impairment or damage to a body structure or function excluding trivial impairment or damage.
3.24SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT LIFE CYCLE MODELconceptual structure spanning the life of the software from deﬁnition of its requirements to its release, which:
identiﬁes the PROCESS, ACTIVITIES and TASKS involved in development of a MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE,
describes the sequence of and dependency between ACTIVITIES and TASKS, and
identiﬁes the milestones at which the completeness of speciﬁed DELIVERABLES is veriﬁed.
NOTE TO ENTRY  Based on ISO/IEC 12207:1995, deﬁnition 3.11
3.25SOFTWARE ITEMany identiﬁable part of a computer program, i.e., source code, object code, control code, control data, or a collection of these items
NOTE 1 TO ENTRY  Three terms identify the software decomposition. The top level is the SOFTWARE SYSTEM. The lowest level that is not further decomposed is the SOFTWARE UNIT. All levels ofcomposition, including the top and bottom levels, can be called SOFTWARE ITEMS. A SOFTWARE SYSTEM, then, is composed of one or more SOFTWARE ITEMS, and each SOFTWARE ITEM is composed of oneor more SOFTWARE UNITS or decomposable SOFTWARE ITEMS. The responsibility is left to the MANUFACTURER to provide the granularity of the SOFTWARE ITEMS and SOFTWARE UNITS.
NOTE 2 TO ENTRY  Based on ISO/IEC 90003:2004, 3.14 and ISO/IEC 12207:2008, 4.41.
3.26Not used
3.27SOFTWARE SYSTEMintegrated collection of SOFTWARE ITEMS organized to accomplish a speciﬁc function or set of functions
3.28SOFTWARE UNITSOFTWARE ITEM that is not subdivided into other items
NOTE TO ENTRY  The granularity of SOFTWARE UNITS is deﬁned by the MANUFACTURER (see B.3).
3.29SOUPsoftware of unknown provenance (acronym)SOFTWARE ITEM that is already developed and generally available and that has not been developed for the purpose of being incorporated into the MEDICAL DEVICE (also known as “off-the-shelfsoftware”) or SOFTWARE ITEM previously developed for which adequate records of the development PROCESSES are not available
NOTE TO ENTRY  A MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE SYSTEM in itself cannot be claimed to be SOUP.
3.30SYSTEMintegrated composite consisting of one or more of the PROCESSES, hardware, software, facilities, and people, that provides a capability to satisfy a stated need or objective
NOTE TO ENTRY  Based on ISO/IEC 12207:2008, 4.48.
3.31TASKa single piece of work that needs to be done
—
—
—
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 12/80

## Page 13

3.32TRACEABILITYdegree to which a relationship can be established between two or more products of the development PROCESS
[SOURCE: IEEE 610.12:1990]
NOTE TO ENTRY  Requirements, architecture, risk control measures, etc. are examples of deliverables of the development PROCESS.
3.33VERIFICATIONconﬁrmation through provision of objective evidence that speciﬁed requirements have been fulﬁlled
NOTE 1 TO ENTRY  “Veriﬁed” is used to designate the corresponding status.
[SOURCE: ISO 9000:2000, deﬁnition 3.8.4]
NOTE 2 TO ENTRY  In design and development, VERIFICATION concerns the PROCESS of examining the result of a given ACTIVITY to determine conformity with the stated requirement for thatACTIVITY.
3.34VERSIONidentiﬁed instance of a CONFIGURATION ITEM
NOTE 1 TO ENTRY  Modiﬁcation to a VERSION of MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE, resulting in a new VERSION, requires software conﬁguration management action.
NOTE 2 TO ENTRY  Based on ISO/IEC 12207:2008, 4.56.
3.35HAZARDOUS SITUATIONcircumstance in which people, property or the environment are exposed to one or more HAZARD(S)
[SOURCE: ISO 14971:2007, 2.4]
3.36LEGACY SOFTWAREMEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE which was legally placed on the market and is still marketed today but for which there is insufﬁcient objective evidence that it was developed in compliance with thecurrent version of this standard
3.37RELEASEparticular VERSION of a CONFIGURATION ITEM that is made available for a speciﬁc purpose
NOTE TO ENTRY  Based on ISO/IEC 12207:2008, deﬁnition 4.35.
3.38RESIDUAL RISKRISK remaining after RISK CONTROL measures have been taken
NOTE 1 TO ENTRY  Adapted from ISO/IEC Guide 51:1999, deﬁnition 3.9.
NOTE 2 TO ENTRY  ISO/IEC Guide 51:1999, deﬁnition 3.9 uses the term “protective measures” rather than “RISK CONTROL measures.” However, in the context of this International Standard,“protective measures” are only one option for controlling RISK as described in ISO 14971:20076.2 [of ].
[SOURCE: ISO 14971:2007, 2.15]
3.39RISK ESTIMATIONPROCESS used to assign values to the probability of occurrence of HARM and the severity of that HARM
[SOURCE: ISO 14971:2007 2.20]
3.40RISK EVALUATIONPROCESS of comparing the estimated RISK against given RISK criteria to determine the acceptability of the RISK
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 13/80

## Page 14

[SOURCE: ISO 14971:2007 2.21]
4 * General requirements
4.1 * Quality management system
The MANUFACTURER of MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE shall demonstrate the ability to provide MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE that consistently meets customer requirements and applicable regulatoryrequirements.
NOTE 1    Demonstration of this ability can be by the use of a quality management system that complies with:
ISO 13485[7]; or
a national quality management system standard; or
a quality management system required by national regulation.
NOTE 2    Guidance for applying quality management system requirements to software can be found in ISO/IEC 90003[11].
—
—
—
4.2 * RISK MANAGEMENT
The MANUFACTURER shall apply a RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS complying with ISO 14971.
4.3 * Software safety classification
a) The MANUFACTURER shall assign to each SOFTWARE SYSTEM a software safety class (A, B, or C) according to the RISK of HARM to the patient, operator, or other people resulting from a HAZARDOUSSITUATION to which the SOFTWARE SYSTEM can contribute in a worst-case-scenario as indicated in Figure 3.
Figure 3 — Assigning software safety classiﬁcation
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 14/80

## Page 15

The SOFTWARE SYSTEM is software safety class A if:
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 15/80

## Page 16

the SOFTWARE SYSTEM cannot contribute to a HAZARDOUS SITUATION; or
the SOFTWARE SYSTEM can contribute to a HAZARDOUS SITUATION which does not result in unacceptable RISK after consideration of RISK CONTROL measures external to the SOFTWARE SYSTEM.
The SOFTWARE SYSTEM is software safety class B if:
the SOFTWARE SYSTEM can contribute to a HAZARDOUS SITUATION which results in unacceptable RISK after consideration of RISK CONTROL measures external to the SOFTWARE SYSTEM and the resultingpossible HARM is non-SERIOUS INJURY.
The SOFTWARE SYSTEM is software safety class C if:
the SOFTWARE SYSTEM can contribute to a HAZARDOUS SITUATION which results in unacceptable RISK after consideration of RISK CONTROL measures external to the SOFTWARE SYSTEM and the resultingpossible HARM is death or SERIOUS INJURY.
For a SOFTWARE SYSTEM initially classiﬁed as software safety class B or C, the MANUFACTURER may implement additional RISK CONTROL measures external to the SOFTWARE SYSTEM (including revising thesystem architecture containing the SOFTWARE SYSTEM) and subsequently assign a new software safety classiﬁcation to the SOFTWARE SYSTEM.
NOTE 1    External RISK CONTROL measures can be hardware, an independent SOFTWARE SYSTEM, health care procedures, or other means to minimize that software can contribute to a HAZARDOUS SITUATION.
NOTE 2    See ISO 14971:2007 subclause 3.2, Management Responsibilities, for the deﬁnition of risk acceptability.
b) Not used.
c) The MANUFACTURER shall document the software safety class assigned to each SOFTWARE SYSTEM in the RISK MANAGEMENT FILE.
d) When a SOFTWARE SYSTEM is decomposed into SOFTWARE ITEMS, and when a SOFTWARE ITEM is decomposed into further SOFTWARE ITEMS, such SOFTWARE ITEMS shall inherit the software safetyclassiﬁcation of the original SOFTWARE ITEM (or SOFTWARE SYSTEM) unless the MANUFACTURER documents a rationale for classiﬁcation into a different software safety class (software safetyclasses assigned according to 4.3 a) replacing “SOFTWARE SYSTEM” with “SOFTWARE ITEM”). Such a rationale shall explain how the new SOFTWARE ITEMS are segregated so that they may beclassiﬁed separately.
e) The MANUFACTURER shall document the software safety class of each SOFTWARE ITEM if that class is different from the class of the SOFTWARE ITEM from which it was created by decomposition.
f) For compliance with this standard, when applying this standard to a group of SOFTWARE ITEMS, the MANUFACTURER shall use the PROCESSES and TASKS which are required by the classiﬁcation ofthe highest-classiﬁed SOFTWARE ITEM in the group unless the MANUFACTURER documents in the RISK MANAGEMENT FILE a rationale for using a lower classiﬁcation.
g) For each SOFTWARE SYSTEM, until a software safety class is assigned, Class C requirements shall apply.
NOTE    In the clauses and subclauses that follow, the software safety classes for which a speciﬁc requirement applies are identiﬁed following the requirement in the form of [Class . . .].
—
—
—
—
4.4 \* LEGACY SOFTWARE
4.4.1 General
As an alternative to applying Clauses 5 through 9 of this standard, compliance of LEGACY SOFTWARE may be demonstrated as indicated in 4.4.2 to 4.4.5.
4.4.2 RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES
In accordance with 4.2 of this standard, the MANUFACTURER shall:
a) assess any feedback, including post-production information, on LEGACY SOFTWARE regarding incidents and / or near incidents, both from inside its own organization and / or from users;
b) perform RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES associated with continued use of the LEGACY SOFTWARE, considering the following aspects:
integration of the LEGACY SOFTWARE in the overall MEDICAL DEVICEarchitecture;—
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 16/80

## Page 17

continuing validity of RISK CONTROL measures, implemented as part of the LEGACY SOFTWARE;
identiﬁcation of HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS associated with the continued use of the LEGACY SOFTWARE;
identiﬁcation of potential causes of the LEGACY SOFTWARE contributing to a HAZARDOUS SITUATION;
deﬁnition of RISK CONTROL measures for each potential cause of the LEGACY SOFTWARE contributing to a HAZARDOUS SITUATION.
—
—
—
—
4.4.3 Gap analysis
Based on the software safety class of the LEGACY SOFTWARE (see 4.3), the MANUFACTURER shall perform a gap analysis of available DELIVERABLES against those required according to 5.2, 5.3, 5.7, andClause 7.
a) The MANUFACTURER shall assess the continuing validity of available DELIVERABLES.
b) Where gaps are identiﬁed, the MANUFACTURER shall EVALUATE the potential reduction in RISK resulting from the generation of the missing DELIVERABLES and associated ACTIVITIES.
c) Based on this evaluation, the MANUFACTURER shall determine the DELIVERABLES to be created and associated ACTIVITIES to be performed. The minimum DELIVERABLE shall be SOFTWARE SYSTEM testrecords (see 5.7.5).
NOTE    Such gap analysis should assure that RISK CONTROL measures, implemented in LEGACY SOFTWARE, are included in the software requirements.
4.4.4 Gap closure activities
a) The MANUFACTURER shall establish and execute a plan to generate the identiﬁed DELIVERABLES. Where available, objective evidence may be used to generate required DELIVERABLES withoutperforming ACTIVITIES required by 5.2, 5.3, 5.7 and Clause 7.
NOTE    A plan on how to address the identiﬁed gaps can be included in a software maintenance plan (see 6.1).
b) The plan shall address the use of the problem resolution PROCESS for handling problems detected in the LEGACY SOFTWARE and DELIVERABLES in accordance with Clause 9.
c) Changes to the LEGACY SOFTWARE shall be performed in accordance with Clause 6.
4.4.5 Rationale for use of LEGACY SOFTWARE
The MANUFACTURER shall document the VERSION of the LEGACY SOFTWARE together with a rationale for the continued use of the LEGACY SOFTWARE based on the outputs of 4.4.
NOTE    Fulﬁlling 4.4 enables further use of LEGACY SOFTWARE in accordance with IEC 62304.
5 Software development PROCESS
5.1 \* Software development planning
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 17/80

## Page 18

5.1.1 Software development plan
The MANUFACTURER shall establish a software development plan (or plans) for conducting the ACTIVITIES of the software development PROCESS appropriate to the scope, magnitude, and softwaresafety classiﬁcations of the SOFTWARE SYSTEM to be developed. The sOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT LIFE CYCLE MODEL shall either be fully deﬁned or be referenced in the plan (or plans). The plan shall addressthe following:
a) the PROCESSES to be used in the development of the SOFTWARE SYSTEM (see Note 4);
b) the DELIVERABLES (includes documentation) of the ACTIVITIES and TASKS;
c) TRACEABILITY between SYSTEM requirements, software requirements, SOFTWARE SYSTEM test, and RISK CONTROL measures implemented in software;
d) software conﬁguration and change management, including SOUP CONFIGURATION ITEMS and software used to support development; and
e) software problem resolution for handling problems detected in the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE, DELIVERABLES and ACTIVITIES at each stage of the life cycle.
[Class A, B, C]
NOTE 1    The SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT LIFE CYCLE MODEL can identify different elements (PROCESSES, ACTIVITIES, TASKS and DELIVERABLES) for different SOFTWARE ITEMS according to the software safety classiﬁcation of each SOFTWARE ITEMof the SOFTWARE SYSTEM.
NOTE 2    These ACTIVITIES and TASKS can overlap or interact and can be performed iteratively or recursively. It is not the intent to imply that a speciﬁc life cycle model should be used.
NOTE 3    Other PROCESSES are described in this standard separately from the development PROCESS. This does not imply that they must be implemented as separate ACTIVITIES and TASKS. The ACTIVITIES and TASKS of theother PROCESSES can be integrated into the development PROCESS.
NOTE 4    The software development plan can reference existing PROCESSES or deﬁne new ones.
NOTE 5    The software development plan may be integrated in an overall SYSTEM development plan.
5.1.2 Keep software development plan updated
The MANUFACTURER shall update the plan as development proceeds as appropriate. [Class A, B, C]
5.1.3 Software development plan reference to SYSTEM design and development
a) As inputs for software development, SYSTEM requirements shall be referenced in the software development plan by the MANUFACTURER.
b) In the software development plan, the MANUFACTURER shall include or reference procedures for coordinating the software development with the system development necessary to satisfy4.1 (such as system integration, veriﬁcation, and validation).
[Class A, B, C]
NOTE    There might not be a difference between SOFTWARE SYSTEM requirements and SYSTEM requirements if the SOFTWARE SYSTEM is a stand alone SYSTEM (software-only device).
5.1.4 Software development standards, methods and tools planning
The MANUFACTURER shall include or reference in the software development plan:
a) standards,
b) methods, and
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 18/80

## Page 19

c) tools
associated with the development of SOFTWARE ITEMS of class C. [Class C]
5.1.5 Software integration and integration testing planning
The MANUFACTURER shall include or reference in the software development plan, a plan to integrate the SOFTWARE ITEMS (including SOUP) and perform testing during integration. [Class B, C]
NOTE 1    It is acceptable to combine integration testing and SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing into a single plan and set of ACTIVITIES.
NOTE 2    See 5.6.
5.1.6 Software VERIFICATION planning
The MANUFACTURER shall include or reference in the software development plan the following VERIFICATION information:
a) DELIVERABLES requiring VERIFICATION;
b) the required VERIFICATION TASKS for each life cycle ACTIVITY;
c) milestones at which the DELIVERABLES are VERIFIED; and
d) the acceptance criteria for VERIFICATION of the DELIVERABLES.
[Class A, B, C]
5.1.7 Software RISK MANAGEMENT planning
The MANUFACTURER shall include or reference in the software development plan, a plan to conduct the ACTIVITIES and TASKS of the software RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS, including the management ofRISKS relating to SOUP. [Class A, B, C]
NOTE    See Clause 7.
5.1.8 Documentation planning
The MANUFACTURER shall include or reference in the software development plan information about the documents to be produced during the software development life cycle. For each identiﬁeddocument or type of document the following information shall be included or referenced:
a)title, name or naming convention;
b)purpose;
d)procedures and responsibilities for development, review, approval and modiﬁcation.
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 19/80

## Page 20

[Class A, B, C]
NOTE    See Clause 8 for consideration of conﬁguration management of documentation.
5.1.9 Software configuration management planning
The MANUFACTURER shall include or reference software conﬁguration management information in the software development plan. The software conﬁguration management information shallinclude or reference:
a) the classes, types, categories or lists of items to be controlled;
b) the software conﬁguration management ACTIVITIES and TASKS;
c) the organization(s) responsible for performing software conﬁguration management ACTIVITIES;
d) their relationship with other organizations, such as software development or maintenance;
e) when the items are to be placed under conﬁguration control; and
f) when the problem resolution PROCESS is to be used.
[Class A, B, C]
NOTE    See Clause 8.
5.1.10 Supporting items to be controlled
The items to be controlled shall include tools, items or settings, used to develop the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE, which could impact the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. [Class B, C]
NOTE 1    Examples of such items include compiler/assembler versions, make ﬁles, batch ﬁles, and speciﬁc environment settings.
NOTE 2    See Clause 8.
5.1.11 Software CONFIGURATION ITEM control before VERIFICATION
The MANUFACTURER shall plan to place CONFIGURATION ITEMS under conﬁguration management control before they are VERIFIED. [Class B, C]
5.1.12 Identification and avoidance of common software defects
The MANUFACTURER shall include or reference in the software development plan a procedure for:
a) identifying categories of defects that may be introduced based on the selected programming technology that are relevant to their SOFTWARE SYSTEM; and
b) documenting evidence that demonstrates that these defects do not contribute to unacceptable RISK.
NOTE    See Annex B of IEC TR 80002‑1:2009 for examples of categories of defects or causes contributing to HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS.
[Class B, C]
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 20/80

## Page 21

5.2 \* Software requirements analysis
5.2.1 Define and document software requirements from SYSTEM requirements
For each SOFTWARE SYSTEM of the MEDICAL DEVICE, the MANUFACTURER shall deﬁne and document SOFTWARE SYSTEM requirements from the SYSTEM level requirements. [Class A, B, C]
NOTE    There might not be a difference between SOFTWARE SYSTEM requirements and SYSTEM requirements if the SOFTWARE SYSTEM is a stand alone SYSTEM (software-only device).
5.2.2 Software requirements content
As appropriate to the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE, the MANUFACTURER shall include in the software requirements:
a) functional and capability requirements;
NOTE 1    Examples include:
performance (e.g., purpose of software, timing requirements),
physical characteristics (e.g., code language, platform, operating system),
computing environment (e.g., hardware, memory size, processing unit, time zone, network infrastructure) under which the software is to perform, and
need for compatibility with upgrades or multiple SOUP or other device versions.
b) SOFTWARE SYSTEM inputs and outputs;
NOTE 2    Examples include:
data characteristics (e.g., numerical, alpha-numeric, format)
ranges,
limits, and
defaults.
c) interfaces between the SOFTWARE SYSTEM and other SYSTEMS;
d) software-driven alarms, warnings, and operator messages;
e) SECURITY requirements;
NOTE 3    Examples include:
those related to the compromise of sensitive information,
authentication,
authorization,
audit trail, and
communication integrity.
system security/malware protection.
f) user interface requirements implemented by software;
NOTE 4    Examples include those related to:
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 21/80

## Page 22

support for manual operations,
human-equipment interactions,
constraints on personnel, and
areas needing concentrated human attention.
NOTE 5    Information regarding usability engineering requirements can be found in IEC 62366‑1[21] among others (e.g., IEC 60601‑1‑6[3]).
g) data deﬁnition and database requirements;
NOTE 6    Examples include:
form;
ﬁt;
function.
h) installation and acceptance requirements of the delivered MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE at the operation and maintenance site or sites;
i) requirements related to methods of operation and maintenance;
j) requirements related to IT-network aspects;
NOTE 9    Examples include those related to:
networked alarms, warnings, and operator messages;
network protocols;
handling of unavailability of network services.
k) user maintenance requirements; and
l) regulatory requirements.
NOTE 10    The requirements in a) through l) can overlap.
[Class A, B, C]
NOTE 7    All of these requirements might not be available at the beginning of the software development.
NOTE 8    Among others, ISO/IEC 25010[12] provides information on quality characteristics that may be useful in deﬁning software requirements.
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
5.2.3 Include RISK CONTROL measures in software requirements
The MANUFACTURER shall include RISK CONTROL measures implemented in software in the requirements as appropriate to the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. [Class B, C]
NOTE    These requirements might not be available at the beginning of the software development and can change as the software is designed and RISK CONTROL measures are further deﬁned.
5.2.4 Re-EVALUATE MEDICAL DEVICE RISK ANALYSIS
The MANUFACTURER shall re-EVALUATE the MEDICAL DEVICE RISK ANALYSIS when software requirements are established and update it as appropriate. [Class A, B, C]
5.2.5 Update requirements
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 22/80

## Page 23

The MANUFACTURER shall ensure that existing requirements, including SYSTEM requirements, are re-EVALUATED and updated as appropriate as a result of the software requirements analysis ACTIVITY.[Class A, B, C]
5.2.6 Verify software requirements
The MANUFACTURER shall verify and document that the software requirements:
a) implement SYSTEM requirements including those relating to RISK CONTROL;
b) do not contradict one another;
c) are expressed in terms that avoid ambiguity;
d) are stated in terms that permit establishment of test criteria and performance of tests;
e) can be uniquely identiﬁed; and
f) are traceable to SYSTEM requirements or other source.
[Class A, B, C]
NOTE    This standard does not require the use of a formal speciﬁcation language.
5.3 \* Software ARCHITECTURAL design
5.3.1 Transform software requirements into an ARCHITECTURE
The MANUFACTURER shall transform the requirements for the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE into a documented ARCHITECTURE that describes the software’s structure and identiﬁes the SOFTWARE ITEMS. [ClassB, C]
5.3.2 Develop an ARCHITECTURE for the interfaces of SOFTWARE ITEMS
The MANUFACTURER shall develop and document an ARCHITECTURE for the interfaces between the SOFTWARE ITEMS and the components external to the SOFTWARE ITEMS (both software and hardware), andbetween the SOFTWARE ITEMS. [Class B, C]
5.3.3 Specify functional and performance requirements of SOUP item
If a SOFTWARE ITEM is identiﬁed as SOUP, the MANUFACTURER shall specify functional and performance requirements for the SOUP item that are necessary for its intended use. [Class B, C]
5.3.4 Specify SYSTEM hardware and software required by SOUP item
If a SOFTWARE ITEM is identiﬁed as SOUP, the MANUFACTURER shall specify the SYSTEM hardware and software necessary to support the proper operation of the SOUP item. [Class B, C]
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 23/80

## Page 24

NOTE    Examples include processor type and speed, memory type and size, SYSTEM software type, communication and display software requirements.
5.3.5 Identify segregation necessary for RISK CONTROL
The MANUFACTURER shall identify any segregation between SOFTWARE ITEMS that is necessary for RISK CONTROL, and state how to ensure that such segregation is effective. [Class C]
NOTE    An example of segregation is to have SOFTWARE ITEMS execute on different processors. The effectiveness of the segregation can be ensured by having no shared resources between the processors. Othermeans of segregation can be applied when effectiveness can be ensured by the software ARCHITECTURE design (see B.4.3).
5.3.6 Verify software ARCHITECTURE
The MANUFACTURER shall verify and document that:
a) the ARCHITECTURE of the software implements SYSTEM and software requirements including those relating to RISK CONTROL;
b) the software ARCHITECTURE is able to support interfaces between SOFTWARE ITEMS and between SOFTWARE ITEMS and hardware; and
c) the MEDICAL DEVICE ARCHITECTURE supports proper operation of any SOUP items.
[Class B, C]
NOTE    A TRACEABILITY analysis of ARCHITECTURE to software requirements can be used to satisfy requirement a).
5.4  \* Software detailed design
5.4.1 Subdivide software into SOFTWARE UNITS
The MANUFACTURER shall subdvide the software until it is represented by SOFTWARE UNITS. [Class B, C]
NOTE    Some SOFTWARE SYSTEMS are not divided further.
5.4.2 Develop detailed design for each SOFTWARE UNIT
The MANUFACTURER shall document a design with enough detail to allow correct implementation of each SOFTWARE UNIT. [Class C]
5.4.3 Develop detailed design for interfaces
The MANUFACTURER shall document a design for any interfaces between the SOFTWARE UNIT and external components (hardware or software), as well as any interfaces between SOFTWARE UNITS,detailed enough to implement each SOFTWARE UNIT and its interfaces correctly. [Class C]
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 24/80

## Page 25

5.4.4 Verify detailed design
The MANUFACTURER shall verify and document that the software detailed design:
a) implements the software ARCHITECTURE; and
b) is free from contradiction with the software ARCHITECTURE.
[Class C]
NOTE    It is acceptable to use a TRACEABILITY analysis of ARCHITECTURE to software detailed design to satisfy requirement a).
5.5 \* SOFTWARE UNIT implementation
5.5.1 Implement each SOFTWARE UNIT
The MANUFACTURER shall implement each SOFTWARE UNIT. [Class A, B, C]
5.5.2 Establish SOFTWARE UNIT VERIFICATION PROCESS
The MANUFACTURER shall establish strategies, methods and procedures for verifying the SOFTWARE UNITS. Where VERIFICATION is done by testing, the test procedures shall be EVALUATED for adequacy.[Class B, C]
5.5.3 SOFTWARE UNIT acceptance criteria
The MANUFACTURER shall establish acceptance criteria for SOFTWARE UNITS prior to integration into larger SOFTWARE ITEMS as appropriate, and ensure that SOFTWARE UNITS meet acceptance criteria.[Class B, C]
NOTE    Examples of acceptance criteria are:
does the software code implement requirements including RISK CONTROL measures?
is the software code free from contradiction with the interface design of the SOFTWARE UNIT?
does the software code conform to programming procedures or coding standards?
—
—
—
5.5.4 Additional SOFTWARE UNIT acceptance criteria
When present in the design, the MANUFACTURER shall include additional acceptance criteria as appropriate for:
a) proper event sequence;
b) data and control ﬂow;
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 25/80

## Page 26

c) planned resource allocation;
d) fault handling (error deﬁnition, isolation, and recovery);
e) initialisation of variables;
f) self-diagnostics;
g) memory management and memory overﬂows; and
h) boundary conditions.
[Class C]
5.5.5 SOFTWARE UNIT VERIFICATION
The MANUFACTURER shall perform the SOFTWARE UNIT VERIFICATION and document the results. [Class B, C]
5.6 \* Software integration and integration testing
5.6.1 Integrate SOFTWARE UNITS
The MANUFACTURER shall integrate the SOFTWARE UNITS in accordance with the integration plan (see 5.1.5). [Class B, C]
5.6.2 Verify software integration
The MANUFACTURER shall verify that the SOFTWARE UNITS have been integrated into SOFTWARE ITEMS and/or the SOFTWARE SYSTEM in accordance with the integration plan (see 5.1.5) and retain records ofthe evidence of such veriﬁcation. [Class B, C]
NOTE    This VERIFICATION is only that the integration has been done according to the plan. This VERIFICATION is most likely implemented by some form of inspection.
5.6.3 Software integration testing
The MANUFACTURER shall test the integrated SOFTWARE ITEMS in accordance with the integration plan (see 5.1.5) and document the results. [Class B, C]
5.6.4 Software integration testing content
For software integration testing, the MANUFACTURER shall address whether the integrated SOFTWARE ITEM performs as intended.
[Class B, C]
NOTE 1    Examples to be considered are:
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 26/80

## Page 27

the required functionality of the software;
implementation of RISK CONTROL measures;
speciﬁed timing and other behaviour;
speciﬁed functioning of internal and external interfaces; and
testing under abnormal conditions including foreseeable misuse.
NOTE 2    It is acceptable to combine integration testing and SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing into a single plan and set of ACTIVITIES.
—
—
—
—
—
5.6.5 EVALUATE software integration test procedures
The MANUFACTURER shall EVALUATE the integration test procedures for adequacy. [Class B, C]
5.6.6 Conduct regression tests
When software items are integrated, the MANUFACTURER shall conduct REGRESSION TESTING appropriate to demonstrate that defects have not been introduced into previously integrated software.[Class B, C]
5.6.7 Integration test record contents
The MANUFACTURER shall:
a) document the test result (pass/fail and a list of ANOMALIES);
b) retain sufﬁcient records to permit the test to be repeated; and
c) identify the tester.
[Class B, C]
NOTE    Requirement b) could be implemented by retaining, for example:
test case speciﬁcations showing required actions and expected results;
records of the equipment;
records of the test environment (including software tools) used for test.
—
—
—
5.6.8 Use software problem resolution PROCESS
The MANUFACTURER shall enter ANOMALIES found during software integration and integration testing into a software problem resolution PROCESS. [Class B, C]
NOTE    See Clause 9.
5.7 \* SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 27/80

## Page 28

5.7.1 Establish tests for software requirements
a) The MANUFACTURER shall establish and perform a set of tests, expressed as input stimuli, expected outcomes, pass/fail criteria and procedures, for conducting SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing, suchthat all software requirements are covered. [Class A, B, C]
b) The MANUFACTURER shall EVALUATE the adequacy of VERIFICATION strategies and test procedures.
NOTE 1    It is acceptable to combine integration testing and SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing into a single plan and set of ACTIVITIES. It is also acceptable to test software requirements in earlier phases.
NOTE 2    Not only separate tests for each requirement, but also tests of combinations of requirements can be performed, especially if dependencies between requirements exist.
5.7.2 Use software problem resolution PROCESS
The MANUFACTURER shall enter ANOMALIES found during software system testing into a software problem resolution PROCESS. [Class A, B, C]
5.7.3 Retest after changes
When changes are made during SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing, the MANUFACTURER shall:
a) repeat tests, perform modiﬁed tests or perform additional tests, as appropriate, to verify the effectiveness of the change in correcting the problem;
b) conduct testing appropriate to demonstrate that unintended side effects have not been introduced; and
c) perform relevant RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES as deﬁned in 7.4.
[Class A, B, C]
5.7.4 EVALUATE SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing
The MANUFACTURER shall EVALUATE the appropriateness of VERIFICATION strategies and test procedures.
The MANUFACTURER shall verify that:
a) all software requirements have been tested or otherwise VERIFIED;
b) the TRACEABILITY between software requirements and tests or other VERIFICATION is recorded; and
c) test results meet the required pass/fail criteria.
[Class A, B, C]
5.7.5 SOFTWARE SYSTEM test record contents
In order to support the repeatability of tests, the MANUFACTURER shall document:
a) a reference to test case procedures showing required actions and expected results;
b) the test result (pass/fail and a list of ANOMALIES);
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 28/80

## Page 29

c) the version of software tested;
d) relevant hardware and software test conﬁgurations;
e) relevant test tools;
f) date tested; and
g) the identity of the person responsible for executing the test and recording the test results.
5.8 \* Software RELEASE for utilization at a SYSTEM level
5.8.1 Ensure software VERIFICATION is complete
The MANUFACTURER shall ensure that all software VERIFICATION ACTIVITIES have been completed and the results have been EVALUATED before the software is released. [Class A, B, C]
5.8.2 Document known residual ANOMALIES
The MANUFACTURER shall document all known residual ANOMALIES. [Class A, B, C]
5.8.3 EVALUATE known residual ANOMALIES
The MANUFACTURER shall ensure that all known residual ANOMALIES have been EVALUATED to ensure that they do not contribute to an unacceptable RISK. [Class B, C]
5.8.4 Document released VERSIONS
The MANUFACTURER shall document the VERSION of the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE that is being released. [Class A, B, C]
5.8.5 Document how released software was created
The MANUFACTURER shall document the procedure and environment used to create the released software. [Class B, C]
5.8.6 Ensure activities and tasks are complete
The MANUFACTURER shall ensure that all software development plan (or maintenance plan) ACTIVITIES and TASKS are complete along with the associated documentation. [Class B, C]
NOTE    See 5.1.3.b).
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 29/80

## Page 30

5.8.7 Archive software
The MANUFACTURER shall archive:
a) the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE and CONFIGURATION ITEMS; and
b) the documentation
for at least a period of time determined as the longer of: the life time of the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE as deﬁned by the MANUFACTURER or a time speciﬁed by relevant regulatory requirements. [ClassA, B, C]
5.8.8 Assure reliable delivery of released software
The MANUFACTURER shall establish procedures to ensure that the released MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE can be reliably delivered to the point of use without corruption or unauthorised change. Theseprocedures shall address the production and handling of media containing the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE including as appropriate:
replication,
media labelling,
packaging,
protection,
storage, and
delivery.
[Class A, B, C]
—
—
—
—
—
—
6 Software maintenance PROCESS
6.1 \* Establish software maintenance plan
The MANUFACTURER shall establish a software maintenance plan (or plans) for conducting the ACTIVITIES and TASKS of the maintenance PROCESS. The plan shall address the following:
a) procedures for:
receiving,
documenting,
evaluating,
resolving and
tracking
feedback arising after release of the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE;
—
—
—
—
—
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 30/80

## Page 31

b) criteria for determining whether feedback is considered to be a problem;
c) use of the software RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS;
d) use of the software problem resolution PROCESS for analysing and resolving problems arising after release of the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE;
e) use of the software conﬁguration management PROCESS (Clause 8) for managing modiﬁcations to the existing SOFTWARE SYSTEM; and
f) procedures to EVALUATE and implement:
upgrades,
bug ﬁxes,
patches and
obsolescence
of SOUP.
[Class A, B, C]
—
—
—
—
6.2 \* Problem and modification analysis
6.2.1 Document and EVALUATE feedback
6.2.1.1 Monitor feedback
The MANUFACTURER shall monitor feedback on MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE released for intended use. [Class A, B, C]
6.2.1.2 Document and EVALUATE feedback
Feedback shall be documented and EVALUATED to determine whether a problem exists in a released MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. Any such problem shall be recorded as a PROBLEM REPORT (see Clause 9).PROBLEM REPORTS shall include actual or potential adverse events, and deviations from speciﬁcations. [Class A, B, C]
6.2.1.3 Evaluate PROBLEM REPORT ’ S affects on SAFETY
Each PROBLEM REPORT shall be EVALUATED to determine how it affects the SAFETY of MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE released for intended use (see 9.2) and whether a change to that software is needed toaddress the problem. [Class A, B, C]
6.2.2 Use software problem resolution PROCESS
The MANUFACTURER shall use the software problem resolution PROCESS (see Clause 9) to address PROBLEM REPORTS. [Class A, B, C]
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 31/80

## Page 32

NOTE    A problem could show that a SOFTWARE SYSTEM or SOFTWARE ITEM has not been placed in the correct software safety class. The problem resolution process can suggest changes of the software safety class.When the PROCESS has been completed, any change of safety class in the SOFTWARE SYSTEM or its SOFTWARE ITEMS should be made known and documented.
6.2.3 Analyse CHANGE REQUESTS
In addition to the analysis required by Clause 9, the MANUFACTURER shall analyse each CHANGE REQUEST for its effect on the organization, MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE released for intended use, andSYSTEMS with which it interfaces. [Class A, B, C]
6.2.4 CHANGE REQUEST approval
The MANUFACTURER shall EVALUATE and approve CHANGE REQUESTS which modify released MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. [Class A, B, C]
6.2.5 Communicate to users and regulators
The MANUFACTURER shall identify the approved CHANGE REQUESTS that affect released MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE.
As required by local regulation, the MANUFACTURER shall inform users and regulators about:
a) any problem in released MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE and the consequences of continued unchanged use; and
b) the nature of any available changes to released MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE and how to obtain and install the changes.
[Class A, B, C]
6.3 \* Modification implementation
6.3.1 Use established PROCESS to implement modification
The MANUFACTURER shall identify and perform any Clause 5ACTIVITIES that need to be repeated as a result of the modiﬁcation. [Class A, B, C]
NOTE    For requirements relating to RISK MANAGEMENT of software changes see 7.4.
6.3.2 Re-release modified SOFTWARE SYSTEM
The MANUFACTURER shall release modiﬁcations according to 5.8. [Class A, B, C]
NOTE    Modiﬁcations can be released as part of a full re-release of a SOFTWARE SYSTEM or as a modiﬁcation kit comprising changed SOFTWARE ITEMS and the necessary tools to install the changes as modiﬁcations to anexisting SOFTWARE SYSTEM.
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 32/80

## Page 33

7 * Software RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
7.1 * Analysis of software contributing to hazardous situations
7.1.1 Identify SOFTWARE ITEMS that could contribute to a hazardous situation
The MANUFACTURER shall identify SOFTWARE ITEMS that could contribute to a hazardous situation identiﬁed in the MEDICAL DEVICE RISK ANALYSIS ACTIVITY of ISO 14971 (see 4.2). [Class B, C]
NOTE    The hazardous situation could be the direct result of software failure or the result of the failure of a RISK CONTROL measure that is implemented in software.
7.1.2 Identify potential causes of contribution to a hazardous situation
The MANUFACTURER shall identify potential causes of the SOFTWARE ITEM identiﬁed above contributing to a hazardous situation.
The MANUFACTURER shall consider potential causes including, as appropriate:
a) incorrect or incomplete speciﬁcation of functionality;
b) software defects in the identiﬁed SOFTWARE ITEM functionality;
c) failure or unexpected results from SOUP;
d) hardware failures or other software defects that could result in unpredictable software operation; and
e) reasonably foreseeable misuse.
[Class B, C]
7.1.3 EVALUATE published SOUP ANOMALY lists
If failure or unexpected results from SOUP is a potential cause of the SOFTWARE ITEM contributing to a hazardous situation, the MANUFACTURER shall EVALUATE as a minimum any ANOMALY list publishedby the supplier of the SOUP item relevant to the VERSION of the SOUP item used in the MEDICAL DEVICE to determine if any of the known ANOMALIES result in a sequence of events that could result in ahazardous situation. [Class B, C]
7.1.4 Document potential causes
The MANUFACTURER shall document in the RISK MANAGEMENT FILE potential causes of the SOFTWARE ITEM contributing to a hazardous situation (see ISO 14971). [Class B, C]
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 33/80

## Page 34

7.1.5
7.2 RISK CONTROL measures
7.2.1 Define RISK CONTROL measures
For each case documented in the RISK MANAGEMENT FILE where a SOFTWARE ITEM could contribute to a HAZARDOUS SITUATION, the MANUFACTURER shall deﬁne and document RISK CONTROL measures inaccordance with ISO 14971. [Class B, C]
NOTE    The RISK CONTROL measures can be implemented in hardware, software, the working environment or user instruction.
7.2.2 RISK CONTROL measures implemented in software
If a RISK CONTROL measure is implemented as part of the functions of a SOFTWARE ITEM, the MANUFACTURER shall:
a) include the RISK CONTROL measure in the software requirements;
b) assign to each SOFTWARE ITEM that contributes to the implementation of a RISK CONTROL measure a software safety class based on the RISK that the RISK CONTROL measure is controlling (see4.3 a)); and
c) develop the SOFTWARE ITEM in accordance with Clause 5.
[Class B, C]
NOTE    This requirement provides additional detail for RISK CONTROL requirements of ISO 14971
7.3 VERIFICATION of RISK CONTROL measures
7.3.1 Verify RISK CONTROL measures
The implementation of each RISK CONTROL measure documented in 7.2 shall be VERIFIED, and this VERIFICATION shall be documented. The MANUFACTURER shall review the RISK CONTROL measure anddetermine if it could result in a new HAZARDOUS SITUATION. [Class B, C]
7.3.2 Not used
7.3.3 Document TRACEABILITY
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 34/80

## Page 35

The MANUFACTURER shall document TRACEABILITY of software HAZARDS as appropriate:
a) from the hazardous situation to the SOFTWARE ITEM;
b) from the SOFTWARE ITEM to the speciﬁc software cause;
c) from the software cause to the RISK CONTROL measure; and
d) from the RISK CONTROL measure to the VERIFICATION of the RISK CONTROL measure.
[Class B, C]
NOTE    See ISO 14971 – RISK MANAGEMENT report.
7.4 RISK MANAGEMENT of software changes
7.4.1 Analyse changes to MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE with respect to SAFETY
The MANUFACTURER shall analyse changes to the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE (including SOUP) to determine whether:
a) additional potential causes are introduced contributing to a hazardous situation; and
b) additional software RISK CONTROL measures are required.
[Class A, B, C]
7.4.2 Analyse impact of software changes on existing RISK CONTROL measures
The MANUFACTURER shall analyse changes to the software, including changes to SOUP, to determine whether the software modiﬁcation could interfere with existing RISK CONTROL measures. [ClassB, C]
7.4.3 Perform RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES based on analyses
The MANUFACTURER shall perform relevant RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES deﬁned in 7.1, 7.2 and 7.3 based on these analyses. [Class B, C]
8 * Software configuration management PROCESS
8.1 * Configuration identification
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 35/80

## Page 36

8.1.1 Establish means to identify CONFIGURATION ITEMS
The MANUFACTURER shall establish a scheme for the unique identiﬁcation of CONFIGURATION ITEMS and their VERSIONS to be controlled according to the development and conﬁguration planningspeciﬁed in 5.1. [Class A, B, C]
8.1.2 Identify SOUP
For each SOUP CONFIGURATION ITEM being used, including standard libraries, the MANUFACTURER shall document:
a) the title,
b) the MANUFACTURER, and
c) the unique SOUP designator
[Class A, B, C]
NOTE    The unique SOUP designator could be, for example, a VERSION, a release date, a patch number or an upgrade designation.
8.1.3 Identify SYSTEM configuration documentation
The MANUFACTURER shall document the set of CONFIGURATION ITEMS and their VERSIONS that comprise the SOFTWARE SYSTEM conﬁguration. [Class A, B, C]
8.2 \* Change control
8.2.1 Approve CHANGE REQUESTS
The MANUFACTURER shall change CONFIGURATION ITEMS identiﬁed to be controlled according to 8.1 only in response to an approved CHANGE REQUEST. [Class A, B, C]
NOTE 1    The decision to approve a CHANGE REQUEST can be integral to the change control PROCESS or part of another PROCESS. This subclause only requires that approval of a change precede its implementation.
NOTE 2    Different acceptance PROCESSES can be used for CHANGE REQUESTS at different stages of the life cycle, as stated in plans, see 5.1.1 d) and 6.1 e).
8.2.2 Implement changes
The MANUFACTURER shall implement the change as speciﬁed in the CHANGE REQUEST. The MANUFACTURER shall identify and perform any ACTIVITY that needs to be repeated as a result of the change,including changes to the software safety classiﬁcation of SOFTWARE SYSTEMS and SOFTWARE ITEMS. [Class A, B, C]
NOTE    This subclause states how the change should be implemented to achieve adequate change control. It does not imply that the implementation is an integral part of the change control PROCESS.Implementation should use planned PROCESSES, see 5.1.1 e) and 6.1 e).
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 36/80

## Page 37

8.2.3 Verify changes
The MANUFACTURER shall verify the change, including repeating any VERIFICATION that has been invalidated by the change and taking into account 5.7.3 and 9.7. [Class A, B, C]
NOTE    This subclause only requires that changes be VERIFIED. It does not imply that VERIFICATION is an integral part of the change control PROCESS. VERIFICATION should use planned PROCESSES, see 5.1.1 e) and 6.1 e).
8.2.4 Provide means for TRACEABILITY of change
The MANUFACTURER shall maintain records of the relationships and dependencies between:
a) CHANGE REQUEST;
b) relevant PROBLEM REPORT; and
c) approval of the CHANGE REQUEST.
[Class A, B, C]
8.3 * Configuration status accounting
The MANUFACTURER shall retain retrievable records of the history of controlled CONFIGURATION ITEMS including SYSTEM conﬁguration. [Class A, B, C]
9 * Software problem resolution PROCESS
9.1 Prepare PROBLEM REPORTS
The MANUFACTURER shall prepare a PROBLEM REPORT for each problem detected in the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. PROBLEM REPORTS shall include a statement of criticality (for example, effect onperformance, SAFETY, or SECURITY) as well as other information that may aid in the resolution of the problem (for example, devices affected, supported accessories affected).
[Class A, B, C]
NOTE    Problems can be discovered before or after release, inside the MANUFACTURER’S organization or outside it.
9.2 Investigate the problem
The MANUFACTURER shall:
a) investigate the problem and if possible identify the causes;
b) EVALUATE the problem’s relevance to SAFETY using the software RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS (Clause 7);
c) document the outcome of the investigation and evaluation; and
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 37/80

## Page 38

d) create a CHANGE REQUEST(S) for actions needed to correct the problem, or document the rationale for taking no action.
[Class A, B, C]
NOTE    A problem does not have to be corrected for the MANUFACTURER to comply with the software problem resolution PROCESS, provided that the problem is not relevant to SAFETY.
9.3 Advise relevant parties
The MANUFACTURER shall advise relevant parties of the existence of the problem, as appropriate.
[Class A, B, C]
NOTE    Problems can be discovered before or after release, inside the MANUFACTURER’S organisation or outside it. The MANUFACTURER determines the relevant parties depending on the situation.
9.4 Use change control process
The MANUFACTURER shall approve and implement all CHANGE REQUESTS, observing the requirements of the change control PROCESS (see 8.2). [Class A, B, C]
9.5 Maintain records
The MANUFACTURER shall maintain records of PROBLEM REPORTS and their resolution including their VERIFICATION.
The MANUFACTURER shall update the RISK MANAGEMENT FILE as appropriate [Class A, B, C]
9.6 Analyse problems for trends
The MANUFACTURER shall perform analysis to detect trends in PROBLEM REPORTS. [Class A, B, C]
9.7 Verify software problem resolution
The MANUFACTURER shall verify resolutions to determine whether:
a) problem has been resolved and the PROBLEM REPORT has been closed;
b) adverse trends have been reversed;
c) CHANGE REQUESTS have been implemented in the appropriate MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE and ACTIVITIES; and
d) additional problems have been introduced.
[Class A, B, C]
9.8 Test documentation contents
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 38/80

## Page 39

When testing, retesting or REGRESSION TESTING SOFTWARE ITEMS and SYSTEMS following a change, the MANUFACTURER shall include in the test documentation:
a) test results;
b) ANOMALIES found;
c) the VERSION of software tested;
d) relevant hardware and software test conﬁgurations;
e) relevant test tools;
f) date tested; and
g) identiﬁcation of the tester.
[Class A, B, C]
Annex A informative Rationale for the requirements of this standard
Rationale for the clauses of this standard is provided in this annex.
A.1 Rationale
The primary requirement of this standard is that a set of PROCESSES be followed in the development and maintenance of MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE, and that the choice of PROCESSES be appropriateto the RISKS to the patient and other people. This follows from the belief that testing of software is not sufﬁcient to determine that it is safe in operation.
The PROCESSES required by this standard fall into two categories:
PROCESSES which are required to determine the RISKS arising from the operation of each SOFTWARE ITEM in the software;
PROCESSES which are required to achieve an appropriately low probability of software failure for each SOFTWARE ITEM, chosen on the basis of these determined RISKS.
This standard requires the ﬁrst category to be performed for all MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE and the second category to be performed for selected SOFTWARE ITEMS.
A claim of compliance with this standard should therefore include a documented RISK ANALYSIS that identiﬁes foreseeable sequences of events that include software and that can result in aHAZARDOUS SITUATION (see ISO 14971). HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS that can be indirectly caused by software (for example, by providing misleading information that could cause inappropriate treatmentto be administered) should be included in this RISK ANALYSIS.
All ACTIVITIES that are required as part of the ﬁrst category of PROCESSES are identiﬁed in the normative text as "[Class A, B, C]", indicating that they are required irrespective of the classiﬁcation ofthe software to which they apply.
ACTIVITIES are required for all classes A, B, and C for the following reasons:
the ACTIVITY produces a plan relevant to RISK MANAGEMENT or software safety classiﬁcation;
the ACTIVITY produces an output that is an input to RISK MANAGEMENT or software safety classiﬁcation;
the ACTIVITY is a part of RISK MANAGEMENT or software safety classiﬁcation;
the ACTIVITY establishes an administration system, documentation or record-keeping system that supports RISK MANAGEMENT or software safety classiﬁcation;
the ACTIVITY normally takes place when the classiﬁcation of the related software is unknown;
the ACTIVITY can cause a change that could invalidate the current software safety classiﬁcation of the associated software. This includes the discovery and analysis of safety relatedproblems after release.
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 39/80

## Page 40

Other PROCESSES are required only for SOFTWARE SYSTEMS or SOFTWARE ITEMS classiﬁed in software safety classes B or C. ACTIVITIES required as parts of these PROCESSES are identiﬁed in the normativetext as "[Class B, C]", or "[Class C]" indicating that they are required selectively depending on the classiﬁcation of the software to which they apply.
ACTIVITIES are required selectively for software in classes B and C for the following reasons:
the ACTIVITY enhances the reliability of the software by requiring more detail or more rigor in the design, testing or other VERIFICATION;
the ACTIVITY is an administrative ACTIVITY that supports another ACTIVITY required for classes B or C;
the ACTIVITY supports the correction of safety-related problems;
the ACTIVITY produces records of design, implementation, VERIFICATION and release of safety-related software.
ACTIVITIES are required selectively for software in class C for the following reasons:
the ACTIVITY further enhances the reliability of the software by requiring more detail, or more rigour, or attention to speciﬁc issues in the design, testing or other VERIFICATION
Note that all PROCESSES and ACTIVITIES deﬁned in this standard are considered valuable in assuring the development and maintenance of high quality software. The omission of many of thesePROCESSES and ACTIVITIES as requirements for software in class A should not imply that these PROCESSES and ACTIVITIES would not be of value or are not recommended. Their omission is intended torecognize that software that cannot cause a HAZARD can be assured of SAFETY and effectiveness primarily through overall validation ACTIVITY during the design of a MEDICAL DEVICE (which is outsidethe scope of this standard) and through some simple software life cycle controls.
—
—
—
—
—
A.2 Summary of requirements by class
Table A.1 summarizes which software safety classes are assigned to each requirement. This table is informative and only provided for convenience. The normative section identiﬁes thesoftware safety classes for each requirement.
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
Table A.1 — Summary of requirements by software safety class
Clauses and subclauses Class A Class B Class C
Clause 4All requirements X X X
5.1 5.1.1, 5.1.2, 5.1.3, 5.1.6, 5.1.7, 5.1.8, 5.1.9, X X X
5.1.5, 5.1.10, 5.1.11, 5.1.12 X X
5.1.4 X
5.2 5.2.1, 5.2.2, 5.2.4, 5.2.5, 5.2.6 X X X
5.2.3 X X
5.3 5.3.1, 5.3.2, 5.3.3, 5.3.4, 5.3.6 X X
5.3.5 X
5.4 5.4.1 X X
5.4.2, 5.4.3, 5.4.4 X
5.5 5.5.1 X X X
5.5.2, 5.5.3, 5.5.5 X X
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 40/80

## Page 41

Annex B informative Guidance on the provisions of this standard
B.1 Scope
B.1.1 Purpose
The purpose of this standard is to provide a development PROCESS that will consistently produce high quality, safe MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. To accomplish this, the standard identiﬁes theminimum ACTIVITIES and TASKS that need to be accomplished to provide conﬁdence that the software has been developed in a manner that is likely to produce highly reliable and safe MEDICALDEVICE SOFTWARE.
This annex provides guidance for the application of the requirements of this standard. It does not add to, or otherwise change, the requirements of this standard. This annex can be used tobetter understand the requirements of this standard.
Note that in this standard, ACTIVITIES are subclauses called out within the PROCESSES and TASKS are deﬁned within the ACTIVITIES. For example, the ACTIVITIES deﬁned for the software developmentPROCESS are software development planning, software requirements analysis, software ARCHITECTURAL design, software detailed design, SOFTWARE UNIT implementation and VERIFICATION, softwareintegration and integration testing, SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing, and software release. The TASKS within these ACTIVITIES are the individual requirements.
This standard does not require a particular SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT LIFE CYCLE MODEL. However, compliance with this standard does imply dependencies between PROCESSES, because inputs of aPROCESS are generated by another PROCESS. For example, the software safety classiﬁcation of the SOFTWARE SYSTEM should be completed after the RISK ANALYSIS PROCESS has established what HARMcould arise from failure of the SOFTWARE SYSTEM.
Because of such logical dependencies between processes, it is easiest to describe the processes in this standard in a sequence, implying a “waterfall” or “once-through” life cycle model.However, other life cycles can also be used. Some development (model) strategies as deﬁned at ISO/IEC 12207[9] include (see also Table B.1):
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
Clauses and subclauses Class A Class B Class C
5.5.4 X
5.6 All requirements X X
5.7 All requirements X X X
5.8 5.8.1, 5.8.2, 5.8.4, 5.8.7, 5.8.8 X X X
5.8.3, 5.8.5, 5.8.6 X X
Clause 6All requirements X X X
7.1 All requirements X X
7.2 All requirements X X
7.3 All requirements X X
7.4 7.4.1 X X X
7.4.2, 7.4.3 X X
Clause 8All requirements X X X
Clause 9All requirements X X X
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 41/80

## Page 42

Waterfall. The “once-through" strategy, also called “waterfall”, consists of performing the development PROCESS a single time. Simplistically: determine customer needs, deﬁnerequirements, design the SYSTEM, implement the system, test, ﬁx and deliver.
Incremental: The “incremental” strategy determines customer needs and deﬁnes the SYSTEM requirements, then performs the rest of the development in a sequence of builds. The ﬁrstbuild incorporates part of the planned capabilities, the next build adds more capabilities, and so on, until the SYSTEM is complete.
Evolutionary: The “evolutionary” strategy also develops a SYSTEM in builds but differs from the incremental strategy in acknowledging that the user need is not fully understood and allrequirements cannot be deﬁned up front. In this strategy, customer needs and SYSTEM requirements are partially deﬁned up front, then are reﬁned in each succeeding build.
Whichever life cycle is chosen it is necessary to maintain the logical dependencies between PROCESS outputs such as speciﬁcations, design documents and software. The waterfall life cyclemodel achieves this by delaying the start of a PROCESS until the inputs for that PROCESS are complete and approved.
Other life cycles, particularly evolutionary life cycles, permit PROCESS outputs to be produced before all the inputs for that PROCESS are available. For example, a new SOFTWARE ITEM can bespeciﬁed, classiﬁed, implemented and VERIFIED before the whole software ARCHITECTURE has been ﬁnalised. Such life cycles carry the RISK that a change or development in one PROCESS output willinvalidate another PROCESS output. All life cycles therefore use a comprehensive conﬁguration management system to ensure that all PROCESS outputs are brought to a consistent state and thedependencies maintained.
The following principles are important regardless of the software development life cycle used:
All PROCESS outputs should be maintained in a consistent state; whenever any PROCESS output is created or changed, all related PROCESS outputs should be updated promptly to maintaintheir consistency with each other and to maintain all dependencies explicitly or implicitly required by this standard;
all PROCESS outputs should be available when needed as input to further work on the software.
before any MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE is released, all PROCESS outputs should be consistent with each other and all dependencies between PROCESS outputs explicitly or implicitly required bythis standard should be observed.
—
—
—
—
—
—
B.1.2 Field of application
This standard applies to the development and maintenance of MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE as well as the development and maintenance of a MEDICAL DEVICE that includes SOUP.
The use of this standard requires the MANUFACTURER to perform MEDICAL DEVICE RISK MANAGEMENT that is compliant with ISO 14971. Therefore, when the MEDICAL DEVICE SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE includes anacquired component (this could be a purchased component or a component of unknown provenance), such as a printer/plotter that includes SOUP, the acquired component becomes theresponsibility of the MANUFACTURER and must be included in the RISK MANAGEMENT of the MEDICAL DEVICE. It is assumed that through proper performance of MEDICAL DEVICE RISK MANAGEMENT, theMANUFACTURER would understand the component and recognize that it includes SOUP. The MANUFACTURER using this standard would invoke the software RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS as part of theoverall MEDICAL DEVICE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS.
The maintenance of released MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE applies to the post-production experience with the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. Software maintenance includes the combination of all technicaland administrative means, including supervision actions, to act on problem reports to retain an item in, or restore it to, a state in which it can perform a required function as well as
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
Table B.1 — Development (model) strategies as deﬁned in ISO/IEC 12207
Development Strategy Deﬁne all requirements ﬁrst? Multiple development cycles? Distribute interim software?
Waterfall
(Once-through) yes no no
Incremental
(Preplanned product improvement)yes yes maybe
Evolutionary no yes yes
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 42/80

## Page 43

modiﬁcation requests related to released MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. For example, this includes problem rectiﬁcation, regulatory reporting, re-validation and preventive action. SeeISO/IEC 14764[10].
B.2 Normative references
ISO/IEC 90003[11] provides guidance for applying a quality management system to software development. This guidance is not required by this standard but is highly recommended.
B.3 Terms and definitions
Where possible, terms have been deﬁned using deﬁnitions from international standards.
This standard chose to use three terms to describe the decomposition of a SOFTWARE SYSTEM (top level). The SOFTWARE SYSTEM can be a subsystem of the MEDICAL DEVICE (see IEC 60601‑1‑4[2]) or aMEDICAL DEVICE in its own right, which then becomes a software MEDICAL DEVICE. The lowest level that is not further decomposed for the purposes of testing or software conﬁguration managementis the SOFTWARE UNIT. All levels of composition, including the top and bottom levels, can be called SOFTWARE ITEMS. A SOFTWARE SYSTEM, then, is composed of one or more SOFTWARE ITEMS, and eachSOFTWARE ITEM is composed of one or more SOFTWARE UNITS or decomposable SOFTWARE ITEMS. The responsibility is left to the MANUFACTURER to provide the deﬁnition and granularity of the SOFTWAREITEMS and SOFTWARE UNITS. Leaving these terms vague allows one to apply them to the many different development methods and types of software used in MEDICAL DEVICES.
B.4 General requirements
There is no known method to guarantee 100 % SAFETY for any kind of software.
There are three major principles which promote SAFETY for MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE:
RISK MANAGEMENT;
quality management;
software engineering.
For the development and maintenance of safe MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE it is necessary to establish RISK MANAGEMENT as an integral part of a quality management system as an overall framework forthe application of appropriate software engineering methods and techniques. The combination of these three concepts allows a MEDICAL DEVICE MANUFACTURER to follow a clearly structured andconsistently repeatable decision-making PROCESS to promote SAFETY for MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE.
—
—
—
B.4.1 Quality management system
A disciplined and effective set of software PROCESSES includes organizational PROCESSES such as management, infrastructure, improvement, and training. To avoid duplication and to focus thisstandard on software engineering, these PROCESSES have been omitted from this standard. These PROCESSES are covered by a quality management system. ISO 13485[7] is an InternationalStandard that is speciﬁcally intended for applying the concepts of quality management to MEDICAL DEVICES. Conformance to ISO 13485 quality management system requirements does notautomatically constitute conformity with national or regional regulatory requirements. It is the MANUFACTURER’S responsibility to identify and establish compliance with relevant regulatoryrequirements.
B.4.2 RISK MANAGEMENT
Software development participates in RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES sufﬁciently to ensure that all reasonably foreseeable RISKS associated with the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE are considered.
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 43/80

## Page 44

Rather than trying to deﬁne an appropriate RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS in this software engineering standard, it is required that the MANUFACTURER apply a RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS that is compliantwith ISO 14971, which deals explicitly with RISK MANAGEMENT for MEDICAL DEVICES. Speciﬁc software RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES resulting from HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS that have software as a contributingcause are identiﬁed in a supporting PROCESS described in Clause 7.
B.4.3 Software safety classification
The RISK associated with software as a part of a MEDICAL DEVICE, as an accessory to a MEDICAL DEVICE, or as a MEDICAL DEVICE in its own right, is used as the input to a software safety classiﬁcationscheme, which then determines the PROCESSES to be used during the development and maintenance of software.
RISK is considered to be a combination of the severity of HARM and the probability of its occurrence. However, no consensus exists for a method of quantitatively estimating the probability ofoccurrence of a software failure. When software is present in a sequence or combination of events leading to a HAZARDOUS SITUATION, the probability of the software failure occurring cannot beconsidered in estimating the RISK for the HAZARDOUS SITUATION. In such cases, considering a worst case probability is appropriate, and the probability for the software failure occurring should beset to 1. When it is possible to estimate the probability for the remaining events in the sequence (as it may be if they are not software) that probability can be used for the probability of theHAZARDOUS SITUATION occurring (P1 in Figure B.2).
In many cases however, it might not be possible to estimate the probability for the remaining events in the sequence, and the RISK should be EVALUATED on the basis of the nature of the HARMalone (the probability of the HAZARDOUS SITUATION occurring should be set to 1). RISK ESTIMATION in these cases should be focused on the SEVERITY of the HARM resulting from the HAZARDOUS SITUATION.Subjective rankings of probability can also be assigned based on clinical knowledge to distinguish failures that a clinician would be likely to detect from those that would not be detected andwould be more likely to cause HARM.
Estimates of probability of a HAZARDOUS SITUATION leading to HARM (P2 in Figure B.2) generally require clinical knowledge to distinguish between HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS where clinical practice wouldbe likely to prevent HARM, and HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS that would be more likely to cause HARM.
Figure B.2 — Pictorial representation of the relationship of HAZARD, sequence of events, HAZARDOUS SITUATION, and HARM – from ISO 14971:2007 Annex E
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 44/80

## Page 45

NOTE    P1 is the probability of a hazardous situation occurring
P2 is the probability of a hazardous situation leading to harm
If a SOFTWARE SYSTEM is decomposed into SOFTWARE ITEMS, then each SOFTWARE ITEM can have its own software safety classiﬁcation.
It is only possible to determine the RISK associated with failure of a SOFTWARE ITEM:
if a SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE and a software ARCHITECTURE deﬁne the role of the SOFTWARE ITEM in terms of its purpose and its interfaces with other software and hardware items;
if changes to the SYSTEM are controlled;
after RISK ANALYSIS has been done on the ARCHITECTURE and RISK CONTROL measures speciﬁed.
—
—
—
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 45/80

## Page 46

This standard requires the minimum number of ACTIVITIES that will achieve the above conditions for all classes of software.
The end of the software ARCHITECTURE ACTIVITY is the earliest point in the development when the full set of SOFTWARE ITEMS is deﬁned and the RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITY has identiﬁed how the SOFTWAREITEMS relate to SAFETY. This is therefore the earliest point at which SOFTWARE ITEMS can be classiﬁed deﬁnitively according to their SAFETY role.
This point corresponds to the point where RISK CONTROL is begun in ISO 14971.
Before this point, the RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS identiﬁes ARCHITECTURAL RISK CONTROL measures, for example adding protective subsystems, or reducing the opportunities for software failures tocause HARM. After this point, the RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS uses PROCESSES aimed at reducing the probability of failure of SOFTWARE ITEMS. In other words, the classiﬁcation of a SOFTWARE ITEM speciﬁesPROCESS-based RISK CONTROL measures to be applied to that item.
It is expected that MANUFACTURERS will ﬁnd it useful to classify software before this point, for example to focus attention on areas to be investigated, but such classiﬁcation should be regardedas preliminary and should not be used to justify the omission of PROCESSES.
The software safety classiﬁcation scheme is not intended to align with the RISK classiﬁcations of ISO 14971. Whereas the ISO 14971 scheme classiﬁes RISK according to their severity andlikelihood, the software safety classiﬁcation scheme classiﬁes SOFTWARE SYSTEMS and SOFTWARE ITEMS according to the PROCESSES to be applied in their development and maintenance.
As the design evolves, new RISKS might become evident. Therefore, RISK MANAGEMENT should be applied as an integral part of the development PROCESS. This permits the development of anARCHITECTURAL design that identiﬁes a complete set of SOFTWARE ITEMS, including those that are required to function correctly to assure safe operation and those that prevent faults from causingHARM.
The software ARCHITECTURE should promote segregation of software items that are required for safe operation and should describe the methods used to ensure effective segregation of thoseSOFTWARE ITEMS. Segregation is not restricted to physical (processor or memory partition) separation but includes any mechanism that prevents one SOFTWARE ITEM from negatively affectinganother. The adequacy of a segregation is determined based on the RISKS involved and the rationale which is required to be documented.
As stated in B.3, this standard chooses to use three terms to describe the decomposition of a SOFTWARE SYSTEM (top level).
Figure B.1 illustrates the possible partitioning for SOFTWARE ITEMS within a SOFTWARE SYSTEM and how the software safety classes would be applied to the group of SOFTWARE ITEMS in thedecomposition.
Figure B.1 — - Example of partitioning of SOFTWARE ITEMS
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 46/80

## Page 47

Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 47/80

## Page 48

For this example, the MANUFACTURER knows, due to the type of MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE being developed, that the preliminary software safety classiﬁcation for the SOFTWARE SYSTEM is softwaresafety class C. During software ARCHITECTURE design the MANUFACTURER has decided to partition the SYSTEM, as shown, with 3 SOFTWARE ITEMS – X, W and Z. The MANUFACTURER is able to segregate allSOFTWARE SYSTEM contributions to HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS which could result in death or SERIOUS INJURY to SOFTWARE ITEM Z and all remaining SOFTWARE SYSTEM contributions to HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS whichcould result in a non-SERIOUS INJURY to SOFTWARE ITEM W. SOFTWARE ITEM W is classiﬁed as software safety class B and SOFTWARE ITEM Z is at software safety class C. SOFTWARE ITEM Y therefore must beclassiﬁed as Class C, per 4.3 d). The SOFTWARE SYSTEM is also at a software safety class C per this requirement. SOFTWARE ITEM X has been classiﬁed at a software safety class of A. The MANUFACTURERis able to document a rationale for the segregation between SOFTWARE ITEMS X and Y, as well as SOFTWARE ITEMS W and Z, to assure the integrity of the segregation. If segregation is not possiblebetween SOFTWARE ITEMS X and Y, then SOFTWARE ITEM X must be classiﬁed in software safety class C.
B.4.4 LEGACY SOFTWARE
Subclause 4.4 establishes a process for application of this standard to LEGACY SOFTWARE. Some geographies may require the MANUFACTURER to show conformity to the standard to obtainregulatory approval of the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE, even if that software was designed prior to the existence of the current version of the standard (LEGACY SOFTWARE). In this case, therequirements in 4.4 provide a method for the the MANUFACTURER to demonstrate compliance of LEGACY SOFTWARE to the standard.
A MANUFACTURER may determine that retrospective documentation of an already ﬁnished development-lifecycle performed as an isolated activity does not result in the reduction of RISKassociated with the use of the product. The process results in the identiﬁcation of a subset of ACTIVITIES deﬁned in this standard which does result in reduction of RISK. Some additional goalsimplicit in the process are:
required ACTIVITIES and resulting documentation should rely on and make use of, wherever possible, existing documentation, and
a MANUFACTURER should utilize resources as effectively as possible to effect a reduction of RISK.
In addition to a plan identifying the subset of ACTIVITIES to execute, the process also results in objective evidence supporting safe continued use of the LEGACY SOFTWARE and a summary rationalefor this conclusion.
The RISKS associated with the planned continued use of the LEGACY SOFTWARE depend on the context in which the LEGACY SOFTWARE will be used to create a SOFTWARE SYSTEM. The MANUFACTURER willdocument all identiﬁed MEDICAL DEVICE HAZARDS associated with the LEGACY SOFTWARE.
Subclause 4.4 requires a comprehensive assessment of available post-production ﬁeld data obtained for the LEGACY SOFTWARE during the time it has been in production and use. Typical sourcesof post-production data include:
adverse events attributable to the device,
feedback received from users of the device, and
ANOMALIES discovered by the MANUFACTURER.
Though no consensus exists for a method of prospectively estimating quantitatively the probability of occurrence of a software failure, such information may be available for LEGACY SOFTWARE,based on the usage of such software and EVALUATION of post-production data. If it is possible in such cases to quantitatively estimate the probability of events in the sequence, a quantitativevalue may be used for expressing the probability of the entire sequence of events occurring. If such quantitative estimation is not possible, considering a worst case probability is appropriate,and the probability for the software failure occurring should be assumed to be 1.
The MANUFACTURER determination of how the LEGACY SOFTWARE will be used in the overall MEDICAL DEVICE SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE is input to the assessment of RISK. The RISKS to be considered varyaccordingly.
When LEGACY SOFTWARE has been safely and reliably used and the MANUFACTURER wishes to continue use of the LEGACY SOFTWARE, the rationale for continued use rests primarily on theassessment of RISK based on post-production records.
When LEGACY SOFTWARE is reused to create a new SOFTWARE SYSTEM, the intended use of the LEGACY SOFTWARE might be different from its original intended use. In this case the RISK assessmentmust take into account the modiﬁed set of HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS which can arise due to failures of the LEGACY SOFTWARE.
A reused LEGACY SOFTWARE may be used for similar intended use but integrated into a new SOFTWARE SYSTEM. In this case the RISK assessment should take into account modiﬁcation ofarchitectural RISK CONTROL measures according to 5.3.
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 48/80

## Page 49

When LEGACY SOFTWARE will be changed and used within a new SOFTWARE SYSTEM, the MANUFACTURER should consider how the existing records of safe and reliable operation may be invalidated bythe changes.
Changes to the LEGACY SOFTWARE should be performed according to Clauses 4 to 9 of this standard, including assessment of impact to RISK CONTROL measures according to 7.4. In the case ofLEGACY SOFTWARE, existing RISK CONTROL measures may not be fully documented and special care should be taken to EVALUATE the potential impact of changes, utilizing available documented designrecords as well as expertise of individuals having knowledge of the system.
According to 4.4, the MANUFACTURER performs a gap analysis in order to determine the available documentation including objective evidence of performed TASKS done during development of theLEGACY SOFTWARE and compared to 5.2, 5.3, 5.7, and Clause 7. Typical steps to accomplish this gap analysis include
a) identiﬁcation of the LEGACY SOFTWARE, including VERSION, revision and any other means, required for clear identiﬁcation;
b) EVALUATION of existing DELIVERABLES corresponding to the deliverables required by 5.2, 5.3, 5.7, and Clause 7;
c) EVALUATION of available objective evidence, documenting the previously applied software development lifecycle model (as appropriate);
d) EVALUATION of the adequacy of existing RISK MANAGEMENT documentation, taking ISO 14971 into account.
Taking the performed gap analysis into account, the MANUFACTURER will EVALUATE the potential reduction in RISK resulting from the generation of the missing DELIVERABLES and associated ACTIVITIES,and create a plan to perform ACTIVITIES and generate DELIVERABLES to close these gaps.
Reduction of RISK should balance the beneﬁt of applying the software development process according to Clause 5 against the possibility that modiﬁcation of the LEGACY SOFTWARE without fullknowledge of its development history could introduce new defects that increase the risk. Some of the elements of Clause 5 may be assessed to have little to no reduction of RISK when doneafter the fact. For example, detailed design and unit veriﬁcation reduce RISK primarily during the process of developing new software or refactoring existing software. If these objectives are notplanned, performing the ACTIVITIES in isolation may create documentation but lead to no reduction in RISK.
At a minimum, the gap closure plan addresses missing SOFTWARE SYSTEM test records. If these do not exist or are not suitable to support a rationale to continue use of the LEGACY SOFTWARE, thegap closure plan should include creation of SOFTWARE SYSTEM requirements at a functional level according to 5.2 and tests according to 5.7.
The documented rationale for continued use of the LEGACY SOFTWARE builds on the available objective evidence and analysis obtained in the course of assessing the RISK and creating a gapclosure plan appropriate for the context of LEGACY SOFTARE reuse.
The rationale makes a positive case for the safe and reliable performace of the LEGACY SOFTWARE in the planned reuse context, taking into account both the post-production records available forthe LEGACY SOFTWARE and the RISK CONTROL MEASURES affected by ﬁlling process gaps.
After LEGACY SOFTWARE has been re-used according to 4.4, those parts of the LEGACY SOFTWARE for which gaps in DELIVERABLES remain, continue to be LEGACY SOFTWARE and may be considered forfurther re-use again according to 4.4. When gaps in deliverables are closed by changing the LEGACY SOFTWARE, the changes should be performed according to Clauses 4 to 9 of this standard.
B.5 Software development PROCESS
B.5.1 Software development planning
The objective of this ACTIVITY is to plan the software development TASKS to reduce RISKS caused by software, communicate procedures and goals to members of the development team, andensure that SYSTEM quality requirements for the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE are met.
The software development planning ACTIVITY can document TASKS in a single plan or in multiple plans. Some MANUFACTURERS might have established policies and procedures that apply to thedevelopment of all their MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. In this case the plan can simply reference the existing policies and procedures. Some MANUFACTURERS might prepare a plan or set of plans speciﬁcto the development of each MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE that spell out in detail speciﬁc ACTIVITIES and reference general procedures. Another possibility is that a plan or set of plans is tailored for thedevelopment of each MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. The planning should be speciﬁed at the level of detail necessary to carry out the development PROCESS and should be proportional to the RISK. Forexample, SYSTEMS or items with higher RISK would be subject to a development PROCESS with more rigor and TASKS should be spelled out in greater detail.
Planning is an iterative ACTIVITY that should be re-examined and updated as development progresses. The plan can evolve to incorporate more and better information as more is understoodabout the SYSTEM and the level of effort needed to develop the SYSTEM. For example, a SYSTEM’s initial software safety classiﬁcation can change as a result of exercising the RISK MANAGEMENTPROCESS and development of the software ARCHITECTURE. Or it might be decided that a SOUP be incorporated into the SYSTEM. It is important that the plan(s) be updated to reﬂect currentknowledge of the SYSTEM and the level of rigor needed for the SYSTEM or items in the SYSTEM to enable proper control over the development PROCESS.
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 49/80

## Page 50

B.5.2 Software requirements analysis
This ACTIVITY requires the MANUFACTURER to establish and verify the software requirements for the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. Establishing veriﬁable requirements is essential for determining what isto be built, for determining that the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE exhibits acceptable behaviour, and for demonstrating that the completed MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE is ready for use. To demonstrate thatthe requirements have been implemented as desired, each requirement should be stated in such a way that objective criteria can be established to determine whether it has been implementedcorrectly. If the device RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS imposes requirements on the software to control identiﬁed RISKS, these requirements are to be identiﬁed in the software requirements in such away as to make it possible to trace the RISK CONTROL measures to the software requirements. All software requirements should be identiﬁed in such a way as to make it possible to demonstrateTRACEABILITY between the requirement and SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing. If regulatory approval in some countries requires conformance to speciﬁc regulations or international standards, thisconformance requirement should be documented in the software requirements. Because the software requirements establish what is to be implemented in the software, an evaluation of therequirements is required before the requirements analysis ACTIVITY is complete.
An area of frequent confusion is the distinction between customer needs, design inputs, software requirements, software functional speciﬁcations, and software design speciﬁcations. Designinputs are the interpretation of customer needs into formally documented MEDICAL DEVICE requirements. Software requirements are the formally documented speciﬁcations of what the softwaredoes to meet the customer needs and the design inputs. Software functional speciﬁcations are often included with the software requirements and deﬁne in detail what the software does tomeet its requirements even though many different alternatives might also meet the requirements. Software design speciﬁcations deﬁne how the software will be designed and decomposed toimplement its requirements and functional speciﬁcations.
Traditionally, software requirements, functional speciﬁcations, and design speciﬁcations have been written as a set of one or more documents. It is now feasible to consider this informationas data items within a common database. Each item would have one or more attributes that would deﬁne its purpose and linkage to other items in the database. This approach allowspresentation and printing of different views of the information best suited for each set of intended users (e.g., marketing, MANUFACTURERS, testers, auditors) and supports TRACEABILITY todemonstrate adequate implementation and the extent to which test cases test the requirements. Tools to support this approach can be as simple as a hypertext document using HTMLhyperlinks or as complex and capable as computer aided software engineering (CASE) tools and requirements analysis tools.
The SYSTEM requirements PROCESS is out of scope of this standard. However, the decision to implement MEDICAL DEVICE functionality with software is normally made during SYSTEM design. Some orall of the SYSTEM requirements are allocated to be implemented in software. The software requirements analysis ACTIVITY consists of analyzing the requirements allocated to software by theSYSTEM requirements PROCESS and deriving a comprehensive set of software requirements that reﬂect the allocated requirements.
To ensure the integrity of the SYSTEM, the MANUFACTURER should provide a mechanism for negotiating changes and clariﬁcations to the SYSTEM requirements to correct impracticalities,inconsistencies or ambiguities in either the parent SYSTEM requirements or the software requirements.
The PROCESS of capture and analysis of SYSTEM and software requirements can be iterative. This standard does not intend to require the PROCESSES to be rigidly segregated into two layers. Inpractice, SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE and software ARCHITECTURE are often outlined simultaneously and the SYSTEM and software requirements are subsequently documented in a layered form.
B.5.3 Software ARCHITECTURAL design
This ACTIVITY requires the MANUFACTURER to deﬁne the major structural components of the software and identify their key responsibilities, their externally visible properties and the relationshipamong them. If the behaviour of a component can affect other components, that behavior should be described in the software ARCHITECTURE. This description is especially important forbehaviour that can affect components of the MEDICAL DEVICE that are outside the software (see 5.3.5 and B.4.3). ARCHITECTURAL decisions are extremely important for implementing RISK CONTROLmeasures. Without understanding (and documenting) the behaviour of a component that can affect other components, it will be nearly impossible to show that the SYSTEM is safe. A softwareARCHITECTURE is necessary to ensure the correct implementation of the software requirements. The software ARCHITECTURE is not complete unless all software requirements can be implementedby the identiﬁed SOFTWARE ITEMS. Because the design and implementation of the software is dependent on the ARCHITECTURE, the ARCHITECTURE is VERIFIED to complete this ACTIVITY. VERIFICATION of theARCHITECTURE is generally done by technical EVALUATION.
The software safety classiﬁcation of SOFTWARE ITEMS during the software ARCHITECTURE ACTIVITY creates a basis for the subsequent choice of software PROCESSES. The records of classiﬁcation areplaced under change control as part of the RISK MANAGEMENT FILE.
Many subsequent events might invalidate the classiﬁcation. These include, for example:
changes of SYSTEM speciﬁcation, software speciﬁcation or ARCHITECTURE;
discovery of errors in the RISK ANALYSIS, especially unforeseen HAZARDS; and
discovery of the infeasibility of a requirement, especially a RISK CONTROL measure;
Therefore, during all ACTIVITIES following the design of the software ARCHITECTURE, the classiﬁcation of the SOFTWARE SYSTEM and SOFTWARE ITEMS should be re-EVALUATED and might need to be revised.This would trigger rework to apply additional PROCESSES to a SOFTWARE ITEM as a result of its upgrading to a higher class. The software conﬁguration management PROCESS (Clause 8) is used toensure that all necessary rework is identiﬁed and completed.
—
—
—
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 50/80

## Page 51

B.5.4 Software detailed design
This ACTIVITY requires the MANUFACTURER to reﬁne the SOFTWARE ITEMS and interfaces deﬁned in the ARCHITECTURE to create SOFTWARE UNITS and their interfaces. Although software units are oftenthought of as being a single function or module, this view is not always appropriate. This standard has deﬁned SOFTWARE UNIT to be a SOFTWARE ITEM that is not subdivided into smaller items.SOFTWARE UNITS can be tested separately. The MANUFACTURER should deﬁne the level of detail of the SOFTWARE UNIT. Detailed design speciﬁes algorithms, data representations, interfaces amongdifferent SOFTWARE UNITS, and interfaces between SOFTWARE UNITS and data structures. Detailed design must also be concerned with the packaging of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT. It is necessary to deﬁnethe design of the SOFTWARE UNITS and the interfaces in sufﬁcient detail to permit its SAFETY and effectiveness to be objectively VERIFIED where this can be ensured using other requirements ordesign documentation. It should be complete enough that the programmer is not required to make ad hoc design decisions. Detailed design must also be concerned with the architecture ofthe MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE.
A SOFTWARE ITEM can be decomposed so that only a few of the new SOFTWARE ITEMS implement the SAFETY-related requirement of the original SOFTWARE ITEM. The remaining SOFTWARE ITEMS do notimplement SAFETY-related functions and can be reclassiﬁed into a lower software safety class. However, the decision to do this is in itself part of the RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS, and is documentedin the RISK MANAGEMENT FILE.
Because implementation depends on detailed design, it is necessary to verify the detailed design before the ACTIVITY is complete. VERIFICATION of detailed design is generally done by a technicalEVALUATION. Subclause 5.4.4 requires the MANUFACTURER to verify the outputs of the detailed design ACTIVITIES. The design speciﬁes how the requirements are to be implemented. VERIFICATION of thedesign provides assurance that it implements the software ARCHITECTURE and is free from contradiction with the software ARCHITECTURE. If the design contains defects, the code will not implementthe requirements correctly.
When present in the design, the MANUFACTURER should verify design characteristics which the MANUFACTURER believes are important for SAFETY. Examples of these characteristics include:
implementation of the intended events, inputs, outputs, interfaces, logic ﬂow, allocation of CPU, allocation of memory resources, error and exception deﬁnition, error and exceptionisolation, and error recovery;
deﬁnition of the default state, in which all faults that can result in a hazardous situation are addressed, with events and transitions;
initialization of variables, memory management; and
cold and warm resets, standby, and other state changes that can affect the RISK CONTROL measures.
—
—
—
—
B.5.5 SOFTWARE UNIT implementation and verification
This ACTIVITY requires the MANUFACTURER to write and verify the code for the SOFTWARE UNITS. The detailed design is to be translated into source code. Coding represents the point wheredecomposition of the speciﬁcations ends and composition of the executable software begins. To consistently achieve the desirable code characteristics, coding standards should be used tospecify a preferred coding style. Examples of coding standards include requirements for understandability, language usage rules or restrictions, and complexity management. The code foreach unit is VERIFIED to ensure that it functions as speciﬁed by the detailed design and that it complies with the speciﬁed coding standards.
Subclause 5.5.5 requires the MANUFACTURER to verify the code. If the code does not implement the design correctly, the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE will not perform as intended.
B.5.6 Software integration and integration testing
This ACTIVITY requires the MANUFACTURER to plan and execute integration of SOFTWARE UNITS into aggregate SOFTWARE ITEMS as well as integration of SOFTWARE ITEMS into higher aggregated SOFTWAREITEMS and to verify that the resulting SOFTWARE ITEMS behave as intended.
The approach to integration can range from non-inc remental integration to any form of incremental integration. The properties of the SOFTWARE ITEM being assembled dictate the chosenmethod of integration.
Software integration testing focuses on the transfer of data and control across a SOFTWARE ITEM’s internal and external interfaces. External interfaces are those with other software, includingoperating system software, and MEDICAL DEVICE hardware.
The rigor of integration testing and the level of detail of the documentation associated with integration testing should be commensurate with the RISK associated with the device, the device’sdependence on software for potentially hazardous functions, and the role of speciﬁc SOFTWARE ITEMS in higher RISK device functions. For example, although all SOFTWARE ITEMS should be tested,items that have an effect on SAFETY should be subject to more direct, thorough, and detailed tests.
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 51/80

## Page 52

As applicable, integration testing demonstrates program behaviour at the boundaries of its input and output domains and conﬁrms program responses to invalid, unexpected, and specialinputs. The program’s actions are revealed when given combinations of inputs or unexpected sequences of inputs, or when deﬁned timing requirements are violated. The test requirements inthe plan should include, as appropriate, the types of white box testing to be performed as part of integration testing.
White box testing, also known as glass box, structural, clear box and open box testing, is a testing technique where explicit knowledge of the internal workings of the SOFTWARE ITEM being testedare used to select the test data. White box testing uses speciﬁc knowledge of the SOFTWARE ITEM to examine outputs. The test is accurate only if the tester knows what the SOFTWARE ITEM issupposed to do. The tester can then see if the SOFTWARE ITEM diverges from its intended goal. White box testing cannot guarantee that the complete speciﬁcation has been implemented since itis focused on testing the implementation of the SOFTWARE ITEM. Black box testing, also known as behavioural, functional, opaque-box, and closed-box testing, is focused on testing the functionalspeciﬁcation and it cannot guarantee that all parts of the implementation have been tested. Thus black box testing is testing against the speciﬁcation and will discover faults of omission,indicating that part of the speciﬁcation has not been fulﬁlled. White box testing is testing against the implementation and will discover faults of commission, indicating that part of theimplementation is faulty. In order to fully test MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE both black and white box testing might be required.
The plans and test documentation identiﬁed in 5.6 and 5.7 can be individual documents tied to speciﬁc phases of development or evolutionary prototypes. They also might be combined so asingle document or set of documents covers the requirements of multiple subsections. All or portions of the documents could be incorporated into higher level project documents such as asoftware or project quality assurance plan or a comprehensive test plan that addresses all aspects of testing for hardware and software. In these cases, a cross reference should be createdthat identiﬁes how the various project documents relate to each of the software integration TASKS.
Software integration testing can be performed in a simulated environment, on actual target hardware, or on the full MEDICAL DEVICE.
Subclause 5.6.2 requires the MANUFACTURER to verify the output of the software integration ACTIVITY. The output of the software integration ACTIVITY is the integrated SOFTWARE ITEMS. Theseintegrated SOFTWARE ITEMS must function properly for the entire MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE to function correctly and safely.
B.5.7 SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing
This ACTIVITY requires the MANUFACTURER to verify the software’s functionality by verifying that the requirements for the software have been successfully implemented.
SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing demonstrates that the speciﬁed functionality exists. This testing VERIFIES the functionality and performance of the program as built with respect to the requirements forthe software.
SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing focuses on functional (black box) testing, although it might be desirable to use white box (see previous section) methods to more efﬁciently accomplish certain tests,initiate stress conditions or faults, or increase code coverage of the qualiﬁcation tests. The organization of testing by types and test stage is ﬂexible, but coverage of requirements, RISK CONTROL,usability, and test types (e.g., fault, installation, stress) should be demonstrated and documented.
SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing tests the integrated software and can be performed in a simulated environment, on actual target hardware, or on the full MEDICAL DEVICE.
When a change is made to a SOFTWARE SYSTEM (even a small change), the degree of REGRESSION TESTING (not just the testing of the individual change) should be determined to ensure that nounintended side effects have been introduced. This REGRESSION TESTING (and the rationale for not fully repeating SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing) should be planned and documented. (See B.6.3).
SOFTWARE SYSTEM test responsibilities can be dispersed, occurring at different locations and being conducted by different organizations. However, regardless of the distribution of TASKS,contractual relations, source of components, or development environment, the device MANUFACTURER retains ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the software functions properly for itsintended use.
If ANOMALIES uncovered during testing can be repeated, but a decision has been made not to ﬁx them, then these ANOMALIES need to be EVALUATED in relation to the RISK analysis to verify that theydo not affect the SAFETY of the device. The root cause and symptoms of the ANOMALIES should be understood, and the rationale for not ﬁxing them should be documented.
Subclause 5.7.4 requires the results of the SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing be EVALUATED to ensure that the expected results were obtained.
B.5.8 Software release
This ACTIVITY requires the MANUFACTURER to document the VERSION of the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE being released, specify how it was created, and follow appropriate procedures for release of thesoftware.
The MANUFACTURER should be able to show that the software that was developed using the development PROCESS is the software that is being released. The MANUFACTURER should also be able toretrieve the software and the tools used for its generation in case it is needed in the future and should store, package, and deliver the software in a manner that minimizes the software frombeing damaged or misused. Deﬁned procedures should be established to ensure that these TASKS are performed appropriately and with consistent results.
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 52/80

## Page 53

B.6 Software maintenance PROCESS
B.6.1 Establish software maintenance plan
The software maintenance PROCESS differs from the software development PROCESS in two ways:
The MANUFACTURER is permitted to use a smaller PROCESS than the full software development PROCESS to implement rapid changes in response to urgent problems.
In responding to software PROBLEMS REPORTS relating to released product, the MANUFACTURER not only addresses the problem but also satisﬁes local regulations (typically by running a pro-active surveillance scheme for collecting problem data from the ﬁeld and communicating with users and regulators about the problem).
Subclause 6.1 requires these PROCESSES to be established in a maintenance plan.
This ACTIVITY requires the MANUFACTURER to create or identify procedures for implementing maintenance ACTIVITIES and TASKS. To implement corrective actions, control changes during maintenance,and manage release of revised software, the MANUFACTURER should document and resolve reported problems and requests from users, as well as manage modiﬁcations to the MEDICAL DEVICESOFTWARE. This PROCESS is activated when the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE undergoes modiﬁcations to code and associated documentation because of either a problem or the need for improvement oradaptation. The objective is to modify released MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE while preserving its integrity. This PROCESS includes migration of the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE to environments or platformsfor which it was not originally released. The ACTIVITIES provided in this clause are speciﬁc to the maintenance PROCESS; however, the maintenance PROCESS might use other PROCESSES in thisstandard.
The MANUFACTURER needs to plan how the ACTIVITIES and TASKS of the maintenance PROCESS will be performed.
—
—
B.6.2 Problem and modification analysis
This ACTIVITY requires the MANUFACTURER to analyze feedback for its effect; verify reported problems; and consider, select, and obtain approval for implementing a modiﬁcation option. Problemsand other requests for changes can affect the performance, SAFETY, or regulatory clearance of a MEDICAL DEVICE. An analysis is necessary to determine whether any effects exist because of aPROBLEM REPORT or whether any effects will result from a modiﬁcation to correct a problem or implement a request. It is especially important to verify through trace or regression analysis thatthe RISK CONTROL measures built into the device are not adversely changed or modiﬁed by the software change that is being implemented as part of the software maintenance ACTIVITY. It is alsoimportant to verify that the modiﬁed software does not cause a HAZARDOUS SITUATION or mitigate a risk in software that previously did not cause a HAZARDOUS SITUATION or mitigate RISKS. Thesoftware safety classiﬁcation of a SOFTWARE ITEM might have changed if the software modiﬁcation now can cause a HAZARD or mitigate a RISK.
It is important to distinguish between software maintenance (Clause 6) and software problem resolution (Clause 9).
The focus of the software maintenance PROCESS is an adequate response to feedback arising after release of the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. As part of a MEDICAL DEVICE, the software maintenancePROCESS needs to ensure that:
SAFETY-related PROBLEM REPORTS are addressed and reported to appropriate regulatory authorities and affected users;
MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE is re-validated and re-released after modiﬁcation with formal controls that ensure the rectiﬁcation of the problem and the avoidance of further problems;
the MANUFACTURER considers what other MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE might be affected and takes appropriate action.
The focus of software problem resolution is the operation of a comprehensive control system that:
analyses PROBLEM REPORTS and identiﬁes all the implications of the problem;
decides on a number of changes and identiﬁes all their side-effects;
implements the changes while maintaining the consistency of the software CONFIGURATION ITEMS including the RISK MANAGEMENT FILE;
VERIFIES the implementation of the changes.
—
—
—
•
•
•
•
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 53/80

## Page 54

The software maintenance PROCESS uses the software problem resolution PROCESS. The software maintenance PROCESS handles the high-level decisions about the PROBLEM REPORT (whether aproblem exists, whether it has a signiﬁcant effect on SAFETY, what changes are needed and when to implement them), and uses the software problem resolution PROCESS to analyse the PROBLEMREPORT to discover all the implications and to generate possible CHANGE REQUESTS which identify all the CONFIGURATION ITEMS that need to be changed and all the VERIFICATION steps that are necessary.
B.6.3 Modification implementation
This ACTIVITY requires that the MANUFACTURER use an established PROCESS to make the modiﬁcation. If a maintenance PROCESS has not been deﬁned, the appropriate development PROCESS TASKS canbe used to make the modiﬁcation. The MANUFACTURER should also ensure that the modiﬁcation does not cause a negative effect on other parts of the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. Unless the MEDICALDEVICE SOFTWARE is treated as a new development, analysis of the effect of a modiﬁcation on the entire MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE is necessary. Regression analysis and testing are employed toprovide assurance that a change has not created problems elsewhere in the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. Regression analysis is the determination of the impact of a change based on review of therelevant documentation (e.g., software requirements speciﬁcation, software design speciﬁcation, source code, test plans, test cases, test scripts, etc.) in order to identify the necessaryregression tests to be run. Regression testing is the rerunning of test cases that a program has previously executed correctly and comparing the current result to the previous result in orderto detect unintended effects of a software change. A rationale must be made that justiﬁes the amount of REGRESSION TESTING that will be performed to ensure that the portions of the MEDICALDEVICE SOFTWARE not being modiﬁed still perform as they did before the modiﬁcation was made.
B.7 Software RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
Software RISK MANAGEMENT is a part of overall MEDICAL DEVICE RISK MANAGEMENT and cannot be adequately addressed in isolation. This standard requires the use of a RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS that iscompliant with ISO 14971. RISK MANAGEMENT as deﬁned in ISO 14971 deals speciﬁcally with a framework for effective management of the RISKS associated with the use of MEDICAL DEVICES. Oneportion of ISO 14971 pertains to control of identiﬁed RISKS associated with each HAZARD identiﬁed during the RISK ANALYSIS. The software RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS in this standard is intended toprovide additional requirements for RISK CONTROL for software, including software that has been identiﬁed during the RISK ANALYSIS as potentially contributing to a hazardous situation, orsoftware that is used to control MEDICAL DEVICE RISKS. The software RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS is included in this standard for two reasons.
a) the intended audience of this standard needs to understand minimum requirements for RISK CONTROL measures in their area of responsibility—software;
b) the general RISK MANAGEMENT standard, ISO 14971, provided as a normative reference in this standard, does not speciﬁcally address the RISK CONTROL of software and the placement of RISKCONTROL in the software development life cycle.
Software RISK MANAGEMENT is a part of overall MEDICAL DEVICE RISK MANAGEMENT. Plans, procedures, and documentation required for the software RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES can be a series of separatedocuments or a single document, or they can be integrated with the MEDICAL DEVICE RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES and documentation as long as all requirements in this standard are met.
B.7.1 Analysis of software contributing to hazardous situations
It is expected that the device HAZARD analysis will identify hazardous situations and corresponding RISK CONTROL measures to reduce the probability and/or severity of those hazardous situationsto an acceptable level. It is also expected that the RISK CONTROL measures will be assigned to software functions that are expected to implement those RISK CONTROL measures.
However, it is not expected that all device hazardous situations can be identiﬁed until the software ARCHITECTURE has been produced. At that time it is known how software functions will beimplemented in software components, and the practicality of the RISK CONTROL measures assigned to software functions can be EVALUATED. At that time the device HAZARD analysis should berevised to include:
revised hazardous situations;
revised RISK CONTROL measures and software requirements;
new hazardous situations arising from software, for example hazardous situations related to human factors.
The software ARCHITECTURE should include credible strategies for segregating software components so that they do not interact in unsafe ways.
•
•
•
B.8 Software configuration management PROCESS
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 54/80

## Page 55

The software conﬁguration management PROCESS is a PROCESS of applying administrative and technical procedures throughout the software life cycle to identify and deﬁne SOFTWARE ITEMS,including documentation, in a SYSTEM; control modiﬁcations and releases of the items; and document and report the status of the items and CHANGE REQUESTS. Software conﬁgurationmanagement is necessary to recreate a SOFTWARE ITEM, to identify its constituent parts, and to provide a history of the changes that have been made to it.
B.8.1 Configuration identification
This ACTIVITY requires the MANUFACTURER to uniquely identify software CONFIGURATION ITEMS and their VERSIONS. This identiﬁcation is necessary to identify the software CONFIGURATION ITEMS and theVERSIONS that are included in the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE.
B.8.2 Change control
This ACTIVITY requires the MANUFACTURER to control changes of the software CONFIGURATION ITEMS and to document information identifying CHANGE REQUESTS and providing documentation about theirdisposition. This ACTIVITY is necessary to ensure that unauthorized or unintended changes are not made to the software CONFIGURATION ITEMS and to ensure that approved CHANGE REQUESTS areimplemented fully and veriﬁed.
CHANGE REQUESTS can be approved by a change control board or by a manager or technical lead according to the software conﬁguration management plan. Approved CHANGE REQUESTS are madetraceable to the actual modiﬁcation and VERIFICATION of the software. The requirement is that each actual change be linked to a CHANGE REQUEST and that documentation exists to show that theCHANGE REQUEST was approved. The documentation might be change control board minutes, an approval signature, or a record in a database.
B.8.3 Configuration status accounting
This ACTIVITY requires the MANUFACTURER to maintain records of the history of the software CONFIGURATION ITEMS. This ACTIVITY is necessary to determine when and why changes were made. Access tothis information is necessary to ensure that software CONFIGURATION ITEMS contain only authorized modiﬁcations.
B.9 Software problem resolution PROCESS
The software problem resolution PROCESS is a PROCESS for analyzing and resolving the problems (including non-conformances), whatever their nature or source, including those discoveredduring the execution of development, maintenance, or other PROCESSES. The objective is to provide a timely, responsible, and documented means to ensure that discovered problems areanalyzed and resolved and that trends are recognized. This PROCESS is sometimes called “defect tracking” in software engineering literature. It is called “problem resolution” in ISO/IEC 12207[9]and IEC 60601‑1‑4[2], Amendment 1. We have chosen to call it “software problem resolution” in this standard.
This ACTIVITY requires that the MANUFACTURER use the software problem resolution PROCESS when a problem or non-conformance is identiﬁed. This ACTIVITY is necessary to ensure that discoveredproblems are analyzed and EVALUATED for possible relevance to SAFETY (as speciﬁed in ISO 14971).
Software development plan(s) or procedures, as required in 5.1, are to address how problems or non-conformances will be handled. This includes specifying at each stage of the life cycle theaspects of the software problem resolution PROCESS that will be formal and documented as well as when problems and nonconformities are to be entered into the software problem resolutionPROCESS.
Annex C informative Relationship to other standards
C.1 General
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 55/80

## Page 56

This standard applies to the development and maintenance of MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. The software is considered a subsystem of the MEDICAL DEVICE or is itself a MEDICAL DEVICE. This standard is tobe used together with other appropriate standards when developing a MEDICAL DEVICE.
MEDICAL DEVICE management standards such as ISO 13485[7] (see C.2 and Annex D) and ISO 14971 (see Annex 0) provide a management environment that lays a foundation for an organizationto develop products. Safety standards such as IEC 60601‑1[1] (see Annex C.4) and IEC 61010‑1[4] (see Annex C.5) give speciﬁc direction for creating safe MEDICAL DEVICES. When software is a partof these MEDICAL DEVICES, IEC 62304 provides more detailed direction on what is required to develop and maintain safe MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE. Many other standards such as ISO/IEC 12207[9](see Annex C.6), IEC 61508‑3[3] (see Annex C.7) and ISO/IEC 90003[11] can be looked to as a source of methods, tools and techniques that can be used to implement the requirements inIEC 62304. Figure C.1 shows the relationship of these standards.
Where clauses or requirements from other standards are quoted, deﬁned terms in the quoted items are terms that are deﬁned in the other standard, not deﬁned terms in this standard.
Figure C.1 — Relationship of key MEDICAL DEVICE standards to IEC 62304
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 56/80

## Page 57

Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 57/80

## Page 58

C.2 Relationship to ISO 13485
This standard requires that the MANUFACTURER employs a quality management system. When a MANUFACTURER uses ISO 13485[7], the requirements of ISO 62304 directly relate to some of therequirements of ISO 13485 as shown in Table C.1.
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
Table C.1 — Relationship to ISO 13485:2003
IEC 62304 clause Related clause of ISO 13485:2003
5.1 Software development planning 7.3.1 Design and development planning
5.2 Software requirements analysis 7.3.2 Design and development inputs
5.3 Software ARCHITECTURAL design
5.4 Software detailed design
5.5 SOFTWARE UNIT implementation and veriﬁcation
5.6 Software integration and integration testing
5.7 SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing 7.3.3 Design and development outputs
7.3.4 Design and development review
5.8 Software release 7.3.5 Design and development veriﬁcation
7.3.6 Design and development validation
6.1 Establish software maintenance plan 7.3.7 Control of design and development changes
6.2 Problem and modiﬁcation analysis
6.3 Modiﬁcation implementation 7.3.5 Design and development veriﬁcation
7.3.6 Design and development validation
7.1 Analysis of software contributing to hazardous situations
7.2 RISK CONTROL measures
7.3 VERIFICATION of RISK CONTROL measures
7.4 RISK MANAGEMENT of software changes
8.1 Conﬁguration identiﬁcation 7.5.3 Identiﬁcation and TRACEABILITY
8.2 Change control 7.5.3 Identiﬁcation and TRACEABILITY
8.3 Conﬁguration status accounting
9 Software problem resolution PROCESS
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 58/80

## Page 59

C.3 Relationship to ISO 14971
Table C.2 shows the areas where IEC 62304 ampliﬁes requirements for the RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS required by ISO 14971.
C.4 Relationship to PEMS requirements of IEC 60601‑1:2005 + IEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012
C.4.1 General
Requirements for software are a subset of the requirements for a programmable electrical medical system (PEMS). This standard identiﬁes requirements for software which are in addition to,but not incompatible with, the requirements of IEC 60601‑1:2005 + IEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012[1] for PEMS. Because PEMS include elements that are not software, not all of therequirements of IEC 60601‑1:2005 + IEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012 for PEMS are addressed in this standard. With the publication of IEC 60601‑1:2005 + IEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012,IEC 62304 is now a normative reference of IEC 60601‑1 and compliance with IEC 60601‑1:2005Clause 14 of  + IEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012 (and thus compliance with the standard)requires compliance with parts of IEC 62304 (not with the whole of IEC 62304 because IEC 60601‑1:2005 + IEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012 does not require compliance with post-production
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
Table C.2 — Relationship to ISO 14971:2007
ISO 14971:2007 clause Related clause of IEC 62304
4.1 RISK ANALYSISprocess
4.2 Intended use and identiﬁcation of characteristics related to the SAFETY of theMEDICAL DEVICE
4.3 Identiﬁcation of HAZARDS 7.1 Analysis of software contributing to HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS
4.4 Estimation of the RISK(S) for each HAZARDOUS SITUATION 4.3 Software safety classiﬁcation
5 RISK EVALUATION
6.1 RISK reduction
6.2 RISK CONTROL option analysis 7.2.1 Deﬁne RISK CONTROL measures
6.3 Implementation of RISK CONTROL measures 7.2.2RISK CONTROL measures implemented in software
7.3.1 Verify RISK CONTROL measures
6.4 RESIDUAL RISK EVALUATION
6.5 RISK/beneﬁt analysis
6.6 RISKS arising from RISK CONTROL MEASURES 7.3.2Document any new sequences of events
6.7 Completeness of RISK CONTROL
7 Evaluation of overall RESIDUAL RISK acceptability
8 RISK MANAGEMENT report 7.3.3 Document TRACEABILITY
9 Production and post-production information7.4 RISK MANAGEMENT of software changes
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 59/80

## Page 60

and maintenance requirements of IEC 62304). Finally, it is important to remember that IEC 60601‑1:2005 + IEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012 is only used if the software is part of a PEMS andnot if the software is itself a MEDICAL DEVICE.
C.4.2 Software relationship to PEMS development
By using the V-model illustrated in Figure C.2 to describe what occurs during a PEMS development, it can be seen that the requirements of this software standard apply at the PEMS componentlevel, from the speciﬁcation of the software requirements to the integration of the SOFTWARE ITEMS into a SOFTWARE SYSTEM. This SOFTWARE SYSTEM is a part of a programmable electrical subsystem(PESS), which is a part of a PEMS.
Figure C.2 — Software as part of the V-model
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
Key:
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 60/80

## Page 61

C.4.3 Development PROCESS
Compliance with the software development PROCESS of this standard (Clause 5) requires that a software development plan be speciﬁed and then followed; it does not require that any particularlife cycle model is used, but it does require that the plan include certain ACTIVITIES and have certain attributes. These requirements relate to the PEMS requirements in IEC 60601‑1 fordevelopment life cycle, requirement speciﬁcation, ARCHITECTURE, design and implementation, and VERIFICATION. The requirements in this standard provide greater detail about softwaredevelopment than those in IEC 60601‑1.
C.4.4 Maintenance PROCESS
Compliance with the software maintenance PROCESS of this standard (Clause 6) requires that procedures be established and followed when changes to software are made. These requirementscorrespond to the requirement in IEC 60601‑1 for modiﬁcation of a PEMS. The requirements in this standard for software maintenance provide greater detail about what must be done forsoftware maintenance than the requirements for PEMS modiﬁcation in IEC 60601‑1.
C.4.5 Other PROCESSES
The other PROCESSES in this standard specify additional requirements for software beyond the similar requirements for PEMS in IEC 60601‑1. In most cases, there is a general requirement forPEMS in IEC 60601‑1, which the PROCESSES in this standard expand upon.
The software RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS in this standard corresponds to the additional RISK MANAGEMENT requirements identiﬁed for PEMS in IEC 60601‑1.
The software problem resolution PROCESS in this standard corresponds to the problem resolution requirement for PEMS in IEC 60601‑1.
The software conﬁguration management PROCESS in this standard speciﬁes additional requirements that are not present for PEMS in IEC 60601‑1 except for documentation.
C.4.6 Coverage of PEMS requirements in IEC 60601‑1:2005 + IEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012
Table C.3 shows the PEMS requirements of IEC 60601‑1 and the corresponding requirements in this standard.
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
Boxes represent typical development lifecycle activities
Outputs from problem resolutionprocess
Solid Arrows indicate typical deliverables transfered into/out of activities
Inputs to problem resolutionprocess
Dotted arrows indicate deliverables just to the Risk Management File
Table C.3 — Relationship to IEC 60601‑1
PEMS requirements from IEC 60601‑1:2005 + IEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012 Requirements of IEC 62304 relating to the software subsystem of a PEMS
14.1 General 4.3 Software safety classiﬁcation
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 61/80

## Page 62

Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
PEMS requirements from IEC 60601‑1:2005 + IEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012 Requirements of IEC 62304 relating to the software subsystem of a PEMSThe requirements in 14.2 to 14.12 (inclusive) shall apply to PEMS unless:
none of the PROGRAMMABLE ELECTRONIC SUBSYSTEMS(PESS) provides functionalitynecessary for BASIC SAFETY or ESSENTIAL PERFORMANCE; or
the application of RISK MANAGEMENTas described in 4.2 demonstrates that the failureof any PESS does not lead to an unacceptable RISK.
The requirements in 14.13 are applicable to any PEMS intended to be incorporated into anIT-NETWORK whether or not the requirements in 14.2 to 14.12 apply.
The PEMS requirements of IEC 60601‑1 would only apply to software safety classes B and C.This standard includes some requirements for software safety class A.
When the requirements in 14.2 to 14.13 apply, the requirements in subclause 4.3,Clause 5, Clause 7, IEC 62304:2006Clause 8 and Clause 9 of shall also apply to thedevelopment or modiﬁcation of software for each PESS.
The software development PROCESS required for compliance with IEC 60601‑1 does notinclude the post production monitoring and maintenance required byIEC 62304:2006Clause 6 of .
14.2 Documentation
The documents required by Clause 14 shall be reviewed, approved, issued and changedin accordance with a formal document control procedure.
5.1 Software development planning
In addition to the speciﬁc requirements in the software development planning ACTIVITY,documents that are part of the RISK MANAGEMENT FILE are required to be maintained byISO 14971. In addition, for documents that are required by the quality system, ISO 13485[8]requires control of the documents.
14.3 RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN
The RISK MANAGEMENT plan required by 4.2.2 shall also include a reference to the PEMSVALIDATION plan (see 14.11).
Not speciﬁcally required.
There is no speciﬁc software validation plan. The PEMS validation plan is at the SYSTEM leveland thus is outside the scope of this software standard. This standard does requireTRACEABILITY from HAZARD to speciﬁc software cause to RISK CONTROL measure to VERIFICATION ofthe RISK CONTROL measure (see 7.3)
14.4 PEMS DEVELOPMENT LIFE - CYCLE
A PEMS DEVELOPMENT LIFE - CYCLE shall be documented.
5.1 Software development planning
5.1.1 Software development plan
The items addressed by the software development plan constitute a SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT LIFECYCLE.
The PEMS DEVELOPMENT LIFE - CYCLE shall contain a set of deﬁned milestones.
At each milestone, the ACTIVITIES to be completed and the VERIFICATION methods to beapplied to those ACTIVITIES shall be deﬁned. 5.1.6 Software VERIFICATION planning
VERIFICATION TASKS, milestones and acceptance criteria must be planned.
Each ACTIVITY shall be deﬁned including its inputs and outputs.5.1.1 Software development plan
ACTIVITIES are deﬁned in this standard.
Documentation to be produced is deﬁned in each ACTIVITY.
Each milestone shall identify the RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES that must be completed beforethat milestone.
The PEMS DEVELOPMENT LIFE - CYCLE shall be tailored for a speciﬁc development by makingplans which detail ACTIVITIES, milestones and schedules. 5.1.1 Software development plan
This standard allows the development life cycle to be documented in the development plan.This means the development plan contains a tailored development life cycle.
—
—
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 62/80

## Page 63

Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
PEMS requirements from IEC 60601‑1:2005 + IEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012 Requirements of IEC 62304 relating to the software subsystem of a PEMS
The PEMS DEVELOPMENT LIFE - CYCLE shall include documentation requirements.5.1.1 Software development plan
5.1.8 Documentation planning
14.5 Problem resolution
Where appropriate, a documented system for problem resolution within and between allphases and ACTIVITIES of the PEMS DEVELOPMENT LIFE - CYCLE shall be developed and maintained.
9 Software problem resolution PROCESS
Depending on the type of product, the problem resolution SYSTEM may:
— be documented as a part of the PEMS DEVELOPMENT LIFE - CYCLE; 5.1.1 Software development plan
— allow the reporting of potential or existing problems affecting BASIC SAFETY or ESSENTIALPERFORMANCE; 9.1 Prepare PROBLEM REPORTS
— include an assessment of each problem for associated RISKS;
— identify the criteria that must be met for the issue to be closed;
— identify the action to be taken to resolve each problem.
14.6 RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 7 Software RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
14.6.1 Identiﬁcation of known and foreseeable HAZARDS
When compiling the list of known or foreseeable HAZARDS, the MANUFACTURER shall considerthose HAZARDS associated with software and hardware aspects of the PEMS includingthose associated with the incorporation of the PEMS into an IT - NETWORK, components ofthird-party origin and legacy subsystems.
7.1 Analysis of software contributing to HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS
This standard does not mention network/data coupling speciﬁcally
14.6.2 RISK CONTROL
Suitably validated tools and PROCEDURES shall be selected and identiﬁed to implementeach RISK CONTROL measure. These tools and PROCEDURES shall be appropriate to assurethat each RISK CONTROL measure satisfactorily reduces the identiﬁed RISK(S).
5.1.4 Software development standards, methods and tools planning
This standard requires the identiﬁcation of speciﬁc tools and methods to be used fordevelopment in general, not for each RISK CONTROL measure.
14.7 Requirements speciﬁcation
For the PEMS and each of its subsystems (e.g. for a PESS) there shall be a documentedrequirement speciﬁcation.
5.2 Software requirements analysis
This standard deals only with the software subsystems of a PEMS.
The requirement speciﬁcation for a system or subsystem shall include and distinguishany ESSENTIAL PERFORMANCE and any RISK CONTROL measures implemented by that system orsubsystem.
5.2.1 Deﬁne and document software requirements from SYSTEM requirements.
5.2.2 Software requirements content
5.2.3 Include RISK CONTROL measures in software requirements
This standard does not require that the requirements related to essential performance andRISK CONTROL measures be distinguished from other requirements, but it does require that allrequirements be uniquely identiﬁed.
14.8 ARCHITECTURE
For the PEMS and each of its subsystems, an ARCHITECTURE shall be speciﬁed that shallsatisfy the requirements speciﬁcation.
5.3 Software ARCHITECTURAL design
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 63/80

## Page 64

Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
PEMS requirements from IEC 60601‑1:2005 + IEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012 Requirements of IEC 62304 relating to the software subsystem of a PEMS
Where appropriate, to reduce the RISK to an acceptable level, the ARCHITECTUREspeciﬁcation shall make use of:
a) COMPONENTS WITH HIGH - INTEGRITY CHARACTERISTICS;
b) fail-safe functions;
c) redundancy;
d) diversity;
e) partitioning of functionality;
f) defensive design, e.g. limits on potentially hazardous effects by restricting theavailable output power or by introducing means to limit the travel of actuators.
5.3.5 Identify segregation necessary for RISK CONTROL
Partitioning is the only technique identiﬁed, and it is only identiﬁed because there is arequirement to state how the integrity of the partitioning is assured.
The ARCHITECTURE speciﬁcation shall take into consideration:
a) allocation of RISK CONTROL measures to subsystems and components of the PEMS;
b) failure modes of components and their effects;
c) common cause failures;
d) systemic failures;
e) test interval duration and diagnostic coverage;
f) maintainability;
g) protection from reasonably foreseeable misuse;
h) the IT - NETWORK speciﬁcation, if applicable.
This is not included in this standard.
14.9 Design and implementation
Where appropriate, the design shall be decomposed into subsystems, each having botha design and test speciﬁcation.
5.4 Software detailed design
5.4.2 Develop detailed design for each SOFTWARE UNIT
This standard does not require a test speciﬁcation for detailed design.
Descriptive data regarding the design environment shall be included in thedocumentation. 5.4.2 Develop detailed design for each SOFTWARE UNIT
14.10 VERIFICATION
VERIFICATION is required for all functions that implement BASIC SAFETY, ESSENTIAL PERFORMANCEor RISK CONTROL measures.
5.1.6 Software VERIFICATION planning
VERIFICATION is required for each ACTIVITY
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 64/80

## Page 65

Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
PEMS requirements from IEC 60601‑1:2005 + IEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012 Requirements of IEC 62304 relating to the software subsystem of a PEMS
A VERIFICATION plan shall be produced to show how these functions shall be veriﬁed. Theplan shall include:
at which milestone(s) VERIFICATION is to be performed on each function;
the selection and documentation of VERIFICATION strategies, ACTIVITIES, techniques, andthe appropriate level of independence of the personnel performing the VERIFICATION;
the selection and utilization of VERIFICATION tools;
coverage criteria for VERIFICATION.
5.1.6 Software VERIFICATION planning
Independence of personnel is not included in this standard. It is considered covered inISO 13485.
The VERIFICATION shall be performed according to the VERIFICATION plan. The results of theVERIFICATION ACTIVITIES shall be documented. VERIFICATION requirements are in most of the ACTIVITIES.
14.11 PEMS VALIDATION
A PEMS VALIDATION plan shall include the validation of BASIC SAFETY and ESSENTIAL PERFORMANCE.
This standard does not cover software validation. PEMS validation is a SYSTEM level ACTIVITYand is outside the scope of this standard.
Methods used for PEMS VALIDATION shall be documented This standard does not cover software validation. PEMS validation is a SYSTEM level ACTIVITYand is outside the scope of this standard.
The PEMS VALIDATION shall be performed according to the PEMS VALIDATION plan. The results ofthe PEMS VALIDATION ACTIVITIES shall be documented. This standard does not cover software validation. PEMS validation is a SYSTEM level ACTIVITYand is outside the scope of this standard.
The person having the overall responsibility for the PEMS VALIDATION shall be independentof the design team. The MANUFACTURER shall document the rationale for the level ofindependence.
This standard does not cover software validation. PEMS validation is a SYSTEM level ACTIVITYand is outside the scope of this standard.
No member of a design team shall be responsible for the PEMS VALIDATION of their owndesign. This standard does not cover software validation. PEMS validation is a SYSTEM level ACTIVITYand is outside the scope of this standard.
All professional relationships of the members of the PEMS VALIDATION team with membersof the design team shall be documented in the RISK MANAGEMENT FILE. This standard does not cover software validation. PEMS validation is a SYSTEM level ACTIVITYand is outside the scope of this standard.
A reference to the methods and results of the PEMS VALIDATION shall be included in the RISKMANAGEMENT FILE. This standard does not cover software validation. PEMS validation is a SYSTEM level ACTIVITYand is outside the scope of this standard.
14.12 Modiﬁcation
If any or all of a design results from a modiﬁcation of an earlier design then either all ofthis clause applies as if it were a new design or the continued validity of any previousdesign documentation shall be assessed under a documented modiﬁcation/changePROCEDURE.
6 Software maintenance PROCESS
This standard takes the approach that software maintenance should be planned and thatimplementation of modiﬁcations should use the software development PROCESS or anestablished software maintenance PROCESS.
When software is modiﬁed, the requirements in IEC 62304:2006subclause 4.3,Clause 5, Clause 7, Clause 8 and Clause 9 of shall also apply to the modiﬁcation.
14.13 PEMS intended to be incorporated into an IT-NETWORK
If the PEMS is intended to be incorporated into an IT-NETWORK that is not validated by thePEMS MANUFACTURER, the MANUFACTURER shall make available instructions for implementingsuch connection including the following:
a) the purpose of the PEMS ’ S connection to an IT-NETWORK;
b) the required characteristics of the IT-NETWORK incorporating the PEMS;
c) the required conﬁguration of the IT-NETWORK incorporating the PEMS;
Requirements for incorporation into an IT-network are not included in this standard.
—
—
—
—
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 65/80

## Page 66

C.4.7 Relationship to requirements in IEC 60601‑1‑4
IEC 60601‑1‑4 has been withdrawn.
C.5 Relationship to IEC 61010‑1
The scope of IEC 61010‑1[5] covers electrical test and measuring equipment, electrical control equipment and electrical laboratory equipment. Only part of the laboratory equipment is used ina medical environment or as in vitro diagnostic equipment (IVD).
Due to legal regulations or normative references, IVD equipment is allocated to MEDICAL DEVICES without, however, falling within the scope of IEC 60601‑1[1]. This is attributable not only to thefact that, strictly speaking, IVD instruments are not MEDICAL DEVICES which come into direct contact with patients, but also to the fact that such products are manufactured for many differentapplications in various laboratories. Use as an IVD instrument or as an accessory for an IVD instrument is then rare.
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
PEMS requirements from IEC 60601‑1:2005 + IEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012 Requirements of IEC 62304 relating to the software subsystem of a PEMSd) the technical speciﬁcations of the network connection of the PEMS includingsecurity speciﬁcations;
e) the intended information ﬂow between the PEMS, the IT-NETWORK and other deviceson the IT-NETWORK, and the intended routing through the IT-NETWORK; and
NOTE 1    This can include aspects of effectiveness and data and system security as relatedto BASIC SAFETY and ESSENTIAL PERFORMANCE (see also Clause H.6 and IEC 80001‑1:2010).
f) a list of the HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS resulting from a failure of the IT-NETWORK to providethe characteristics required to meet the purpose of the PEMS connection to the IT-NETWORK.
In the ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTS, the MANUFACTURER shall instruct the RESPONSIBLE ORGANIZATIONthat:
connection of the PEMS to an IT-NETWORK that includes other equipment could resultin previously unidentiﬁed RISKS to PATIENTS, OPERATORS or third parties;
the RESPONSIBLE ORGANIZATION should identify, analyze, evaluate and control theseRISKS;
NOTE 3    IEC 80001‑1:2010 provides guidance for the RESPONSIBLE ORGANIZATION to addressthese risks.
subsequent changes to the IT-NETWORK could introduce new RISKS and requireadditional analysis; and
changes to the IT-NETWORK include:
changes in the IT-NETWORK conﬁguration;
connection of additional items to the IT-NETWORK;
disconnecting items from the IT-NETWORK;
update of equipment connected to the IT-NETWORK; and
upgrade of equipment connected to the IT-NETWORK.
—
—
—
—
•
•
•
•
•
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 66/80

## Page 67

If laboratory equipment is used as IVD equipment, the measured results obtained must be EVALUATED in accordance with medical criteria. The application of ISO 14971 is required for RISKMANAGEMENT. If such products also contain software that can lead to a HAZARDOUS SITUATION, for example failure caused by the software which results in an unwanted change of medical data(measuring results), IEC 62304 must be taken into account.
IEC 61010‑1:2010 has a general requirement for risk assessment in Clause 17, which is more streamlined than the full risk management requirements of ISO 14971. Applying IEC 61010‑1Clause 17 alone does not meet the required criteria for risk management of IEC 62304, which is based on full ISO 14971risk management requirements. With this in mind, it is expected by thisstandard that when an IVD medical device has software-related risks, its risk management process is performed following ISO 14971 instead of only IEC 61010‑1Clause 17 of . Compliance withIEC 61010‑1Clause 17 of will be achieved, as detailed in the Note to IEC 61010‑1Clause 17 of :
NOTE    One RISK assessment procedure is outlined in Annex J. Other RISK assessment procedures are contained in ISO 14971, SEMI S10-1296, IEC 61508, ISO 14121‑1, and ANSI B11.TR3. Other established procedureswhich implement similar steps can also be used.
The ﬂowchart in Figure C.3 shows the application of IEC 62304 with IEC 61010‑1, Clause 17:
Figure C.3 — Application of IEC 62304 with IEC 61010‑1
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 67/80

## Page 68

Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 68/80

## Page 69

C.6 Relationship to ISO/IEC 12207
This standard has been derived from the approach and concepts of ISO/IEC 12207[9], which deﬁnes requirements for software life cycle PROCESSES in general, i.e. not restricted to MEDICALDEVICES.
This standard differs from ISO/IEC 12207 mainly with respect to the following. It:
excludes SYSTEM aspects, such as SYSTEM requirements, SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE and validation;
omits some PROCESSES seen as duplicating ACTIVITIES documented elsewhere for MEDICAL DEVICES;
adds the (SAFETY) RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS and the software releasePROCESS;
incorporates the documentation and the VERIFICATION supporting PROCESSES into the development and maintenance PROCESSES;
merges the PROCESS implementation and planning ACTIVITIES of each PROCESS into a single ACTIVITY in the development and maintenance PROCESSES;
classiﬁes the requirements with respect to SAFETY needs; and
does not explicitly classify PROCESSES as primary or supporting, nor group PROCESSES as ISO/IEC 12207 does.
Most of these changes were driven by the desire to tailor the standard to the need of the MEDICAL DEVICE sector by:
focusing on SAFETY aspects and the MEDICAL DEVICE RISK MANAGEMENT standard ISO 14971;
selecting the appropriate PROCESSES useful in a regulated environment;
taking into account that software development is embedded in a quality system (which covers some of the PROCESSES and requirements of ISO/IEC 12207); and
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 69/80

## Page 70

lowering the level of abstraction to make it easier to use.
This standard is not contradictory to ISO/IEC 12207. ISO/IEC 12207 can be useful as an aide in setting up a well structured SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT LIFE CYCLE MODEL that includes the requirementsof this standard.
Table C.5, which was prepared by ISO/IEC JTC1/SC7, shows the relationship between IEC 62304 and ISO/IEC 12207.
•
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
Table C.5 — Relationship to ISO/IEC 12207:2008
ISO/IEC 62304PROCESSES ISO/IEC 12207:2008
ACTIVITY TASK PROCESSES ACTIVITY/TASK
5 Software development PROCESS
5.1 Software development planning5.1.1 Software development plan7.1.1 Software Implementation7.1.1.3.1 Software implementation strategy
7.1.1.3.1.1
7.1.1.3.1.3
7.1.1.3.1.4
6.3.1.3.2 Project planning
6.3.1.3.2.1
5.1.2 Keep software development planupdated 6.3.2 Project Assesment and Control6.3.2.3.2 Project control
6.3.2.3.2.1
5.1.3 Software development plan referenceto SYSTEM design and development6.4.3 System Architectural Design
6.4.5 System Integration
7.2.5 Software Validation Process
6.4.3.3.1 Establishing architecture
6.4.3.3.1.1
6.4.5.3.1 Integration
6.4.5.3.1.1
7.2.5.3.1 Process implementation
7.2.5.3.1.4
5.1.4 Software development standards,methods and tools planning7.1.1 Software Implementation7.1.1.3.1 Software implementation strategy
7.1.1.3.1.3
5.1.5 Software integration and integrationtesting planning 7.1.6 Software Integration7.1.6.3.1 Software integration
7.1.6.3.1.1
5.1.6 Software VERIFICATION planning 7.2.4 Software Veriﬁcation
7.1.5 Software Construction
7.1.6 Software Integration
7.2.4.3.1 Process implementation
7.2.4.3.1.4
7.2.4.3.1.5
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 70/80

## Page 71

Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
ISO/IEC 62304PROCESSES ISO/IEC 12207:2008
ACTIVITY TASK PROCESSES ACTIVITY/TASK
7.1.7 Software Qualiﬁcation Testing7.1.5.3.1 Software constrution
7.1.5.3.1.5
7.1.6.3.1 Software integration
7.1.6.3.1.5
7.1.7.3.1 Software qualiﬁcation testing
7.1.7.3.1.3
5.1.7 Software RISK MANAGEMENT planning6.3.4 Risk Management Process
5.1.8 Documentation planning7.2.1 Software Documentation Management7.2.1.3.1 Process implementation
7.2.1.3.1.1
5.1.9 Software conﬁguration managementplanning 7.2.2 Software Conﬁguration Management
7.2.8 Software Problem Resolution
7.2.2.3.1 Process implementation
7.2.2.3.1.1
7.2.8.3.1 Process implementation
7.2.8.3.1.1
5.1.10 Supporting items to be controlled6.2.2 Infrastructure Management
6.2.2 Infrastructure Management
6.2.2.3.2 Establishment of theinfrastructure
6.2.2.3.2.1
6.2.2.3.3 Maintenance of theinfrastructure
6.2.2.3.3.1
5.1.11 Software CONFIGURATION ITEM controlbefore VERIFICATION 7.2.2 Software Conﬁguration Management7.2.2.3.2 Conﬁguration identiﬁcation
7.2.2.3.2.1
5.2 Software requirements analysis5.2.1 Deﬁne and document softwarerequirements from SYSTEM requirements6.4.3 System Architectural Design6.4.3.3.1 Establishing architecture
6.4.3.3.1.1
5.2.2 Software requirements content7.1.2 Software Requirements Analysis7.1.2.3.1 Software requirements analysis
7.1.2.3.1.15.2.3 Include RISK CONTROL measures insoftware requirements
5.2.4 Re-EVALUATE MEDICAL DEVICE RISK ANALYSISNone None
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 71/80

## Page 72

Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
ISO/IEC 62304PROCESSES ISO/IEC 12207:2008
ACTIVITY TASK PROCESSES ACTIVITY/TASK
5.2.5 Update SYSTEM requirements7.1.2 Software Requirements Analysis7.1.2.3.1 Software requirements analysis
7.1.2.3.1.1 a) & b)
5.2.6 Verify software requirements7.2.4 Software Veriﬁcation 7.2.4.3.2 Veriﬁcation
7.2.4.3.2.1
5.3 Software ARCHITECTURAL design 5.3.1 Transform software requirements intoan ARCHITECTURE 7.1.3 Software Architectural Design7.1.3.3.1 Software architectural design
7.1.3.3.1.1
5.3.2 Develop an ARCHITECTURE for theinterfaces of SOFTWARE ITEMS 7.1.3.3.1 Software architectural design
7.1.3.3.1.2
5.3.3 Specify functional and performancerequirements of SOUP item None none
5.3.4 Specify SYSTEM hardware and softwarerequired by SOUP item None none
5.3.5 Identify segregation necessary for RISKCONTROL None none
5.3.6 Verify software ARCHITECTURE7.1.3 Software Architectural Design7.1.3.3.1 Software architectural design
7.1.3.3.1.6
5.4 Software detailed design5.4.1 Reﬁne SOFTWARE ARCHITECTURE intoSOFTWARE UNITS 7.1.4 Software Detailed Design7.1.4.3.1 Software detailed design
7.1.4.3.1.15.4.2 Develop detailed design for eachSOFTWARE UNIT
5.4.3 Develop detailed design for interfaces 7.1.4.3.1 Software detailed design
7.1.4.3.1.2
5.4.4 Verify detailed design7.1.4 Software Detailed Design7.1.4.3.1 Software detailed design
7.1.4.3.1.7
5.5SOFTWARE UNIT implementation andveriﬁcation 5.5.1 Implement each SOFTWARE UNIT 7.1.5 Software Construction7.1.5.3.1 Software construction
7.1.5.3.1.1
5.5.2 Establish SOFTWARE UNIT VERIFICATIONPROCESS 7.1.4 Software Detailed Design
7.1.5 Software Construction
7.1.4.3.1 Software detailed design
7.1.4.3.1.5
7.1.5.3.1 Software Construction
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 72/80

## Page 73

Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
ISO/IEC 62304PROCESSES ISO/IEC 12207:2008
ACTIVITY TASK PROCESSES ACTIVITY/TASK
7.1.5.3.1.5
5.5.3 SOFTWARE UNIT acceptance criteria7.1.5 Software Construction7.1.5.3.1 Software construction
7.1.5.3.1.5
5.5.4 Additional SOFTWARE UNIT acceptancecriteria 7.1.5 Software Construction
7.2.4 Software Veriﬁcation
7.1.5.3.1 Software construction
7.1.5.3.1.2
5.5.5SOFTWARE UNIT VERIFICATION 7.1.5 Software Construction7.1.5.3.1 Software construction
7.1.5.3.1.2
5.6 Software integration and integrationtesting 5.6.1 Integrate SOFTWARE UNITS 7.1.6 Software Integration7.1.6.3.1 Software integration
7.1.6.3.1.2
5.6.2 Verify software integration7.1.6 Software Integration
6.4.5 System Integration
7.1.6.3.1 Software integration
7.1.6.3.1.2
6.4.5.3.1 Integration
6.4.5.3.1.2
5.6.3 Test integrated software7.1.7 Software Qualiﬁcation Testing7.1.7.3.1 Software qualiﬁcation testing
7.1.7.3.1.1
5.6.4 Integration testing content7.1.7 Software Qualiﬁcation Testing7.1.7.3.1 Software qualiﬁcation testing
7.1.7.3.1.3
5.6.5 Verify integration tests proceduresNone None
5.6.6 Conduct regression tests7.1.6 Software Integration7.1.6.3.1 Software integration
7.1.6.3.1.2
5.6.7 Integration test record contents7.1.6 Software Integration7.1.6.3.1 Software integration
7.1.6.3.1.2
5.6.8 Use software problem resolutionPROCESS 7.2.4 Software Veriﬁcation 7.2.4.3.1 Process implementation
7.2.4.3.1.6
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 73/80

## Page 74

Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
ISO/IEC 62304PROCESSES ISO/IEC 12207:2008
ACTIVITY TASK PROCESSES ACTIVITY/TASK
5.7SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing 5.7.1 Establish tests for each softwarerequirement 7.1.6 Software Integration
7.1.7 Software Qualiﬁcation Testing
7.1.6.3.1 Software integration
7.1.6.3.1.4
7.1.7.3.1 Software qualiﬁcation testing
7.1.7.3.1.1
5.7.2 Use software problem resolutionPROCESS 7.2.4 Software Veriﬁcation 7.2.4.3.1 Process implementation
7.2.4.3.1.6
5.7.3 Retest after changes7.2.8 Software Problem Resolution7.2.8.3.1 Process implementation
7.2.8.3.1.1
5.7.4 Verify SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing 7.1.7 Software Qualiﬁcation Testing7.1.7.3.1 Software qualiﬁcation testing
7.1.7.3.1.3
5.7.5 SOFTWARE SYSTEM test record contents7.1.7 Software Qualiﬁcation Testing7.1.7.3.1 Software qualiﬁcation testing
7.1.7.3.1.1
5.8 Software release 5.8.1 Ensure software VERIFICATION iscomplete 6.4.9 Software Operation
7.2.2 Software Conﬁguration Management
6.4.9.3.2 Operation activation and check-out
6.4.9.3.2.1
6.4.9.3.2.2
7.2.2.3.6 Release management anddelivery
7.2.2.3.6.1
5.8.2 Document known residual ANOMALIES7.2.2 Software Conﬁguration Management
7.1.7 Software Qualiﬁcation Testing
7.2.2.3.5 Conﬁguration evaluation
7.2.2.3.5.1
7.1.7.3.1 Software qualiﬁcation testing
7.1.7.3.1.35.8.3 EVALUATE known residual ANOMALIES
5.8.4 Document released VERSIONS 7.2.2 Software Conﬁguration ManagementProcess 7.2.2.3.6 Release management anddelivery
7.2.2.3.6.15.8.5 Document how released software wascreated
5.8.6 Ensure ACTIVITIES and TASKS arecomplete
5.8.7 Archive software
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 74/80

## Page 75

Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
ISO/IEC 62304PROCESSES ISO/IEC 12207:2008
ACTIVITY TASK PROCESSES ACTIVITY/TASK
5.8.8 Assure repeatability of softwarerelease
6 Software maintenance PROCESS 6.4.10 Software Maintenance Process
6.1 Establish software maintenance plan 6.4.10 Software MaintenanceNone
6.2 Problem and modiﬁcation analysis6.2.1 Document and EVALUATE feedbackNone None
6.2.1.1 Monitor feedback6.4.10 Software MaintenanceNone
6.2.1.2 Document and EVALUATE feedback
6.2.1.3 EVALUATE PROBLEM REPORT’S effects onSAFETY 6.4.10 Software MaintenanceNone
6.2.2 Use software problem resolutionPROCESS 6.4.10 Software MaintenanceNone
6.2.3 Analyse CHANGE REQUESTS 6.4.10 Software MaintenanceNone
6.2.4CHANGE REQUEST approval 6.4.10 Software MaintenanceNone
6.2.5 Communicate to users and regulators6.4.10 Software MaintenanceNone
6.3 Modiﬁcation implementation None None
6.3.1 Use established PROCESS to implementmodiﬁcation 6.4.10 Software MaintenanceNone
6.3.2 Re-release modiﬁed SOFTWARE SYSTEM7.2.2 Software Conﬁguration ManagementNone
7 Software RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS 6.3.4 Risk Management Process
This is based on ISO/IEC 16085. While there is some commonality it does not address thespeciﬁc requirements for medical device software development with regard to riskmanagement
8 Software conﬁguration management PROCESS
8.1 Conﬁguration identiﬁcation8.1.1 Establish means to identifyCONFIGURATION ITEMS 7.2.2 Software Conﬁguration ManagementNone
8.1.2 Identify SOUP None None
8.1.3 Identify SYSTEM conﬁgurationdocumentation 7.2.2 Software Conﬁguration ManagementNone
8.2 Change control 8.2.1 Approve CHANGE REQUESTS 7.2.2 Software Conﬁguration ManagementNone
8.2.2 Implement changes6.4.10 Software MaintenanceNone
8.2.3 Verify changes 7.2.2 Software Conﬁguration ManagementNone
8.2.4 Provide means for TRACEABILITY ofchange
8.3 Conﬁguration status accounting 7.2.2 Software Conﬁguration ManagementNone
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 75/80

## Page 76

C.7 Relationship to IEC 61508
The question has been raised whether this standard, being concerned with the design of SAFETY-critical software, should follow the principles of IEC 61508. The approach to safety in IEC 62304is fundamentally different than the one in IEC 61508. IEC 62304 takes into account that the effectiveness of medical devices justiﬁes residual risks related to their use. The following explainsthe stance of this standard.
IEC 61508 addresses 3 main issues:

1. RISK MANAGEMENT life cycle and life cycle PROCESSES;
2. deﬁnition of Safety Integrity Levels;
3. recommendation of techniques, tools and methods for software development and levels of independence of personnel responsible for performing different TASKS.
   Issue 1) is covered in this standard by a normative reference to ISO 14971 (the MEDICAL DEVICE sector standard for RISK MANAGEMENT). The effect of this reference is to adopt ISO 14971’s approach toRISK MANAGEMENT as an integral part of the software PROCESS for MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE.
   For issue 2), this standard takes a simpler approach than IEC 61508. The latter classiﬁes software into 4 “Safety Integrity Levels” deﬁned in terms of reliability objectives. The reliabilityobjectives are identiﬁed after RISK ANALYSIS, which quantiﬁes both the severity and the probability of HARM caused by a failure of the software.
   This standard simpliﬁes issue 2) by deﬁning the classiﬁcation into 3 software safety classes based on the RISK caused by a failure. After classiﬁcation, different PROCESSES are required fordifferent software safety classes: the intention is to further reduce the probability (and/or the severity) of failure of the software.
   Issue 3) is not addressed by this standard. Readers of the standard are encouraged to use IEC 61508 as a source for good software methods, techniques and tools, while recognising that otherapproaches, both present and future, can provide equally good results. This standard makes no recommendation concerning independence of people responsible for one software ACTIVITY (forexample VERIFICATION) from those responsible for another (for example design). In particular, this standard makes no requirement for an independent safety assessor, since this is a matter forISO 14971.
   Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
   ISO/IEC 62304PROCESSES ISO/IEC 12207:2008
   ACTIVITY TASK PROCESSES ACTIVITY/TASK
   9 Software problem resolution PROCESS
   9.1 Prepare PROBLEM REPORTS 7.2.8 Software Problem ResolutionNone
   9.2 Investigate the problem 7.2.8 Software Problem ResolutionNone
   9.3 Advise relevant parties 7.2.8 Software Problem ResolutionNone
   9.4 Use change control process 7.2.2 Software Conﬁguration Management
   6.4.10 Software Maintenance
   None
   9.5 Maintain records 7.2.8 Software Problem ResolutionNone
   9.6 Analyse problems for trends 7.2.8 Software Problem ResolutionNone
   9.7 Verify software problem resolution 7.2.8 Software Problem ResolutionNone
   9.8 Test documentation contents All testing TASKS in ISO 12207 requiredocumentation None
   12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
   https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 76/80

## Page 77

Annex D informative Implementation
D.1 Introduction
This annex gives an overview of how this standard can be implemented into MANUFACTURERS’ PROCESSES. It also considers that other standards like ISO 13485[7] require adequate and comparablePROCESSES.
D.2 Quality management system
For MANUFACTURERS of MEDICAL DEVICES, including MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE in the context of this standard, the establishment of a quality management system (QMS) is required in 4.1. This standarddoes not require that the QMS necessarily has to be certiﬁed.
D.3 EVALUATE quality management PROCESSES
It is recommended to EVALUATE how well the established and documented PROCESSES of the QMS already cover the PROCESSES of the software life cycle, by means of audits, inspections, oranalyses under the responsibility of the MANUFACTURER. Any identiﬁed gaps can be accommodated by extending the QM PROCESSES, or can be separately described. If the MANUFACTURER already hasPROCESS descriptions available which regulate the development, VERIFICATION and validation of software, then these should also be EVALUATED to determine how well they agree with this standard.
D.4 Integrating requirements of this standard into the MANUFACTURER ’ S quality management PROCESSES
This standard can be implemented by adapting or extending the PROCESSES already installed in the QMS system, or integrating new PROCESSES. This standard does not specify how this is to bedone; the MANUFACTURER is free to do this in any suitable way.
The MANUFACTURER is responsible for ensuring that the PROCESSES described in this standard are suitably put into action when the MEDICAL DEVICE SOFTWARE is developed by Original EquipmentManufacturers (OEM) or sub-contractors not having their own documented QMS.
D.5 Checklist for small MANUFACTURERS without a certified QMS
The MANUFACTURER should determine the highest software safety classiﬁcation (A, B or C) of the software. Table D.1 lists all ACTIVITIES described in this standard. The reference to ISO 13485 shouldhelp to deﬁne the place in the QMS. Based on the required software safety class, the MANUFACTURER should assess each required ACTIVITY against the existing PROCESSES. If the requirement isalready covered, a reference to the relevant PROCESS descriptions should be given.
If there is discrepancy, an action is needed to improve the PROCESS.
The list can also be used for an EVALUATION of the PROCESSES after the action has been performed.
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
Table D.1 — Checklist for small companies without a certiﬁed QMS
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 77/80

## Page 78

Annex ZA normative Normative references to international publications with their correspondingEuropean publications
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
ACTIVITY Related clause of ISO 13485:2003 Covered by existingprocedure? If yes: Reference Actions to be taken
5.1 Software development planning7.3.1 Design and development planningYes/No
5.2 Software requirements analysis7.3.2 Design and development inputsYes/No
5.3 Software ARCHITECTURAL design Yes/No
5.4 Software detailed design Yes/No
5.5 SOFTWARE UNIT implementation andveriﬁcation Yes/No
5.6 Software integration andintegration testing Yes/No
5.7 SOFTWARE SYSTEM testing 7.3.3 Design and development outputs
7.3.4 Design and development review
Yes/No
5.8 Software release 7.3.5 Design and development veriﬁcation
7.3.6 Design and development validation
Yes/No
6.1 Establish software maintenance plan7.3.7 Control of design and developmentchanges Yes/No
6.2 Problem and modiﬁcation analysis Yes/No
6.3 Modiﬁcation implementation7.3.5 Design and development veriﬁcation
7.3.6 Design and development validation
Yes/No
7.1 Analysis of software contributing tohazardous situations Yes/No
7.2 RISK CONTROL measures Yes/No
7.3 VERIFICATION OF RISK CONTROL measures Yes/No
7.4 RISK MANAGEMENT of software changes Yes/No
8.1 Conﬁguration identiﬁcation7.5.3 Identiﬁcation and traceability Yes/No
8.2 Change control 7.5.3 Identiﬁcation and traceability Yes/No
8.3 Conﬁguration status accounting Yes/No
9 Software problem resolution PROCESS Yes/No
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 78/80

## Page 79

The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application of this document. For dated references, only the edition cited applies. For undated references, the latest edition ofthe referenced document (including any amendments) applies.
NOTE    When an international publication has been modiﬁed by common modiﬁcations, indicated by (mod), the relevant EN/HD applies.
Annex ZZ informative Coverage of Essential Requirements of EC Directives
This European Standard has been prepared under a mandate given to CENELEC by the European Commission and the European Free Trade Association and within its scope the standardcovers all relevant essential requirements as given in 93/42/EECAnnex I of the EC Directives , 90/385/EC and 98/79/EC.
Compliance with this standard provides one means of conformity with the speciﬁed essential requirements of the Directives concerned.
WARNING: — Other requirements and other EC Directives may be applicable to the products falling within the scope of this standard.
Bibliography
[1]  IEC 60601‑1:2005, Medical electrical equipment — Part 1: General requirements for basic safety and essential performanceIEC 60601‑1:2005/AMD1:2012
[2]  IEC 60601‑1‑4:1996, Medical electrical equipment — Part 1: General requirements for safety – 4.Collateral standard: Programmable electrical medical systems(withdrawn)IEC 60601‑1‑4:1996/AMD1:1999
[3]  IEC 60601‑1‑6, Medical electrical equipment — Part 1-6: General requirements for basic safety and essential performance — Collateral standard: Usability
[4]  IEC 61508‑3, Functional safety of electrical/electronic/programmable electronic safety-related systems — Part 3: Software requirements
[5]  IEC 61010‑1:2010 Safety requirements for electrical equipment for measurement, control, and laboratory use — Part 1: General requirements
[6]  ISO 9000:2005, Quality management systems — Fundamentals and vocabulary
[7]  ISO 9001:2008, Quality management systems — Requirements
[8]  ISO 13485:2003, Medical devices — Quality management systems — Requirements for regulatory purposes
[9]  ISO/IEC 12207:2008, Systems and software engineering — Software life cycle processes
[10]  ISO/IEC 14764:1999, Software Engineering — Software Life Cycle Processes — Maintenance
[11]  ISO/IEC 15504‑5:2012, Information technology — Process assessment — Part 5: An exemplar software life cycle process assessment model
[12]  ISO/IEC 25010:2011, Systems and software engineering — System and software Quality Requirements and Evaluation (SQuaRE) — System and software quality models
[13]  ISO/IEC 33001:‑4), Information technology — Process assessment — Concepts and terminology
[14]  ISO/IEC 33004:‑5), Information technology — Process assessment — Requirements for process reference, process assessment and maturity modelss
[15]  ISO/IEC 90003:2014, Software engineering — Guidelines for the application of ISO 9001:2008 to computer software
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
Publication Year Title EN/HD Year
ISO 14971 —2) Medical devices — Application of risk management to medical devices EN ISO 1497120003)
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 79/80

## Page 80

1)At draft stage.
2)Undated reference.
3)Valid edition at date of issue.
5In preparation.
5To be published.
6In preparation.
[16]  ISO/IEC Guide 51:2014, Safety aspects — Guidelines for their inclusion in standards
[17]  IEEE 610.12:1990, IEEE standard glossary of software engineering terminology
[18]  IEEE 1044:2009, IEEE standard classiﬁcation for software anomalies
[19]  U.S. Department Of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration, Guidance for the Content of Premarket Submissions for Software Contained in Medical Devices, May 11,2005, <http://www.fda.gov/MedicalDevices/DeviceRegulationandGuidance/GuidanceDocuments/ucm089543.htm>
[20]  U.S. Department Of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration, General Principles of Software Validation; Final Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, January 11,2002, <http://www.fda.gov/downloads/RegulatoryInformation/Guidances/ucm126955.pdf>
[21]  IEC 62366‑1:2015, Medical devices — Part 1: Application of usability engineering to medical devices
[22]  IEC 82304‑1:‑6), Healthcare Software Systems — Part 1: General requirements
Licensed copy: Michael Harding, Acme Incorporated, Version correct as of 16/Dec/2025
12/16/25, 5:49 AM Compliance Navigator
https://compliancenavigator.bsigroup.com/doc/000000000030287754?tab=view 80/80
